0
IOP  Background  Little is known about genetic factors affecting intraocular pressure (IOP) in mice and other mammals. The purpose of this study was to determine the IOPs of genetically distinct mouse strains, assess the effects of factors such as age, sex and time of day on IOP in specific strain backgrounds, and to assess the effects of specific candidate gene mutations on IOP.
IOP  Background  Little is known about genetic factors affecting intraocular pressure (IOP) in mice and other mammals. The purpose of this study was to determine the IOPs of genetically distinct mouse strains, assess the effects of factors such as age, sex and time of day on IOP in specific strain backgrounds, and to assess the effects of specific candidate gene mutations on IOP.
1
IOP Most tested strains exhibit a diurnal rhythm with IOP being the highest during the dark period of the day.
IOP Homozygosity for a null allele of the carbonic anhydrase II gene (Car2n) does not alter IOP while homozygosity for a mutation in the leptin receptor gene (Leprdb) that causes obesity and diabetes results in increased IOP.
2
Albino C57BL/6J mice homozygous for a tyrosinase mutation (Tyrc-2J) Albino C57BL/6J mice homozygous for a tyrosinase mutation (Tyrc-2J) have higher IOPs than their pigmented counterparts.
their Albino C57BL/6J mice homozygous for a tyrosinase mutation (Tyrc-2J) have higher IOPs than their pigmented counterparts.
3
Glaucoma  Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness but its molecular etiology is poorly understood.
its  Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness but its molecular etiology is poorly understood.
4
We We have focused on developing the mouse system for IOP and glaucoma studies [13-19].
we Previously, we developed a method to measure IOP in mice and reported initial findings on the magnitude of mouse IOP [13].
our The initial experiments demonstrated that in our hands careful ocular cannulation has a very minor effect on IOP (average of -0.3 mmHg, mode -0.5 mmHg) and demonstrated significant differences in intraocular pressure levels between four mouse strains.
we Here, we provide an update, including an extensive strain survey, and show that the methodology is reliable and produces reproducible data over extended periods of time.
We We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
We We have observed similar quantities of these cells at this location in other strains with lower IOP.
we Previously described retinal degeneration [[81]] caused by homozygosity for the Pde6brd1mutation was noted in strains SB/Le, ST/bJ, BUB/BnJ, CBA/J, C3H/HeJ, SJL/J and SWR/J.  Strain differences are reproducible  To assess the consistency of IOP in specific strains, we measured IOP in different cohorts of each strain maintained under similar conditions at different times.
We We purposefully included strains at each end of the IOP spectrum, and strain C57BL/6J (B6) that is commonly used for genetic experiments (Figure 3).
our During this period, the room in which our animals were housed and the manufacturer of the mouse diet were changed.
We Effect of age on IOP  We focused on the commonly used B6, 129P3/J and C3H/HeJ strains to determine the effects of age on IOP (Figure 4).
we To further assess the effects of anesthesia, we measured IOP in groups of genetically identical B6 mice subjected to different doses (1X, 1.5X and 2X) at 5 and 25 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
we In support of a later effect of anesthesia (since general anesthesia is reported to mask diurnal variation in IOP [21]), we identified increased IOP during the dark compared to the light period of the day in several tested strains (Figure 6).
we To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
we To test if the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola alters IOP in relation to that of strain B6, we compared the IOPs of pure B6 males and consomic B6 males that had the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome (backcrossed for 11 generations).
we This was recently confirmed in cohorts of approximately 25 males of each genotype (mean ± SD; db/db 422 ± 110 mg/dl ; db/+ 147 ± 19 mg/dl; Anthony Nicholson, The Jackson Laboratory, personal communication)  Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
we Lepr  To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared mice that were genetically similar but were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in obesity and diabetes before 4 months of age on the C57BLKS/J strain background used [27].
we  To determine if albinism alters IOP, we analyzed B6 mice that were either pigmented or albino.
We We report the IOPs of over 30 genetically different mouse strains that were housed in the same environmental conditions.
our Using our method, a trained investigator can measure the IOPs of 10 mice in an hour.
we The strain survey we report provides valuable information for designing these experiments.
we The relationship between the IOPs we measure and those in conscious mice depends upon the effect of our anesthetic protocol (intraperitoneal injection of 99 mg/kg ketamine and 9 mg/kg xylazine).
our The relationship between the IOPs we measure and those in conscious mice depends upon the effect of our anesthetic protocol (intraperitoneal injection of 99 mg/kg ketamine and 9 mg/kg xylazine).
we Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
our Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
Our  Similarities and differences to rat studies  Our results agree with the time course of cardiovascular depression caused by intraperitoneal administration of ketamine and xylazine in rats.
our The time 0 measurement in that study was at a very similar state of anesthesia as our 4 and 5 minute time points (starting as soon as possible and within 20 to 60 seconds of adequate anesthesia), and the 5 minute rat time point was similar to our 9 and 10 minute measurement times.
our The time 0 measurement in that study was at a very similar state of anesthesia as our 4 and 5 minute time points (starting as soon as possible and within 20 to 60 seconds of adequate anesthesia), and the 5 minute rat time point was similar to our 9 and 10 minute measurement times.
we In mice, the strain does not appear to be important as no early effect of anesthesia was present in the three distantly related laboratory strains [37] we studied in detail, and we have not observed any obvious effect during this period in any analyzed strain.
we In mice, the strain does not appear to be important as no early effect of anesthesia was present in the three distantly related laboratory strains [37] we studied in detail, and we have not observed any obvious effect during this period in any analyzed strain.
We We use wood shavings for bedding and wood shavings expose the mice to terpenes.
We We evaluated the relationship between these latter factors and IOP in genetically homogeneous mouse strains in a controlled environment.
We We previously demonstrated that the glaucomatous strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty develop elevated IOP with age [14,19].
we Gender  In the examined strains, we found no consistent differences in IOP between males and females.
we Of possible relevance, we previously reported that female mice of strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty develop elevated IOP at an earlier age than males [14,19].
Our Our comparison of the relationship between blood pressure and IOP in young, adult female mice of different mouse strains, whose blood pressures differed up to 36 mmHg, did not reveal a positive correlation.
we To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
We We first suspected IOP changes with time of day when the IOP of a group of B6 mice measured in the hour prior to onset of the dark period appeared to be higher than at other times of day.
we Thus, we compared the IOPs of mice at different times of day and identified several strains with significantly higher IOP during the dark compared to the light period.
Our Our experiments show that a genetic deficiency of CAII in mice homozygous for a mutation in the Car2 gene does not alter IOP.
our CAIV activity was recently demonstrated in the ciliary processes [73] and so our data may support a more substantial role for CAIV compared to CAII in aqueous humor secretion.
we Here, we show increased IOP in mice lacking tyrosinase activity compared to otherwise genetically identical pigmented B6 mice.
our In trained hands, our measurement procedure is reliable, accurate and rapid enough to allow large scale genetic studies of factors determining IOP.
The Jackson Laboratory All mice were bred and maintained at The Jackson Laboratory.
we To ensure that we were analyzing the effect of age and not diabetes, the B6 mice in the aging experiment were fed NIH31 (4% fat) chow.
We We have found no differences in IOP between B6 mice housed on the 4% fat and 6% fat versions of this otherwise identical diet.
The Jackson Laboratory's The colony was monitored for specific pathogens by The Jackson Laboratory's routine surveillance program (see  for specific pathogens).
we The PCR products we purified and sequenced as described [22].
5
a method to measure IOP in mice Previously, we developed a method to measure IOP in mice and reported initial findings on the magnitude of mouse IOP [13].
The procedure The procedure involves direct measurement of pressure following cannulation of the anterior chamber.
the methodology Here, we provide an update, including an extensive strain survey, and show that the methodology is reliable and produces reproducible data over extended periods of time.
our anesthetic protocol Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
that study In that study, anesthesia had a minor effect on blood pressure during the first 15 minutes following injection but a strong hypotensive effect between 15 and 30 minutes that continued for more than an hour [35].
that study The time 0 measurement in that study was at a very similar state of anesthesia as our 4 and 5 minute time points (starting as soon as possible and within 20 to 60 seconds of adequate anesthesia), and the 5 minute rat time point was similar to our 9 and 10 minute measurement times.
6
Approximately half of the CE/J and one third of the BUB/BnJ mice Approximately half of the CE/J and one third of the BUB/BnJ mice were 16 months old and were pooled with the younger mice, as the IOPs of both ages were the same.
both ages Approximately half of the CE/J and one third of the BUB/BnJ mice were 16 months old and were pooled with the younger mice, as the IOPs of both ages were the same.
7
More than 20% of CBA/CaJ mice More than 20% of CBA/CaJ mice had IOPs of over 21 mmHg, which increases risk for glaucoma in humans.
these mice We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
8
a small group of these mice We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
their We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
they We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
9
Figure 2 For example, the iridocorneal angle and aqueous humor drainage structures are open to the anterior chamber and have normal morphology in both BALB/cJ and CBA/CaJ mice (Figure 2).
Figure 2 Figure 2  Normal iridocorneal angles in strains with high and low IOP.
Figure 1  Table 1  Ocular abnormalities in various strains  All strains shown in Figure 1 were evaluated but only strains with abnormalities are shown.
Figure 4  In strain 129P3/J, IOP did not differ significantly with age between 3 and 14 months but was lower in 18 month old mice (P < 0.001 compared to all younger ages, Figure 4).
Figure 5 To identify any early window when it may be possible to assess IOP without an obvious anesthetic effect, 195 mice of strain B6 were anesthetized with the 1X dose and IOP was measured at 1 minute time points between 4 and 12 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
Figure 6 Figure 6  IOP is increased during the dark compared to light periods in several strains.
10
Pigment filled macrophages that resemble human clump cells Pigment filled macrophages that resemble human clump cells were often located in the angle of CBA/CaJ mice but were never sufficient to block drainage.
these cells We have observed similar quantities of these cells at this location in other strains with lower IOP.
11
the angle of CBA/CaJ mice Pigment filled macrophages that resemble human clump cells were often located in the angle of CBA/CaJ mice but were never sufficient to block drainage.
this location We have observed similar quantities of these cells at this location in other strains with lower IOP.
12
The angle recess between the cornea (C) and iris root (I) The angle recess between the cornea (C) and iris root (I) was open and not occluded.
this recess Aqueous humor passes through this recess before entering the drainage structures.
13
mice or eyes affected For incidence, the numerator indicates the number of mice or eyes affected and the denominator indicates the total number analyzed.
The mice The mice were 6 to 12 months old at the time of analysis and were not studied at other ages unless indicated.
14
were The average IOP of different cohorts of strains CBA/CaJ, CBA/CaHN (both high end of spectrum) and B6 were consistent over time.
This This was true of most strains assessed on multiple occasions.
15
The average IOP of different cohorts of strains CBA/CaJ, CBA/CaHN (both high end of spectrum) and B6 The average IOP of different cohorts of strains CBA/CaJ, CBA/CaHN (both high end of spectrum) and B6 were consistent over time.
Average IOP for age matched mice of the same strain assessed at different times Average IOP for age matched mice of the same strain assessed at different times typically differed by no more than 1.5 mmHg, and the differences were usually smaller.
16
The IOPs of strains that were analyzed multiple times in the same year The IOPs of strains that were analyzed multiple times in the same year are listed in the chronological order that they were obtained with the earliest measurement on left.
they The IOPs of strains that were analyzed multiple times in the same year are listed in the chronological order that they were obtained with the earliest measurement on left.
17
Strain 129P3/J Strain 129P3/J was the most variable strain with the average IOP fluctuating by up to 2.5 mmHg.
this strain Between early 1996 and 1997, however, the IOP of this strain did jump from approximately 7.7 mmHg to approximately 11 mmHg (Figure 3).
18
Figure 3   Figure 3  
Figure 3 Between early 1996 and 1997, however, the IOP of this strain did jump from approximately 7.7 mmHg to approximately 11 mmHg (Figure 3).
19
this period During this period, the room in which our animals were housed and the manufacturer of the mouse diet were changed.
the same period Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
20
early 1996 Between early 1996 and 1997, however, the IOP of this strain did jump from approximately 7.7 mmHg to approximately 11 mmHg (Figure 3).
1996 Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
1996 Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
1996 Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
21
1997 Between early 1996 and 1997, however, the IOP of this strain did jump from approximately 7.7 mmHg to approximately 11 mmHg (Figure 3).
1997 Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
1997 Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
1997 Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
22
B6 Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
B6 In B6, age had a significant effect on IOP (P < 0.001).
C57BL/6J As demonstrated here, the IOPs of C57BL/6J are very consistent over time and so these animals were interspersed with experimental mice during all experiments to ensure that calibration had not drifted and that the system was functioning optimally.
23
decreased IOP was slightly decreased at both 12 months (12.2 ± 0.2 mmHg) and 19 months (12.2 ± 0.3 mmHg) compared to 3 months (13.1 ± 0.3 mmHg) and 7 months (13.3 ± 0.3 mmHg).
the decrease Although the decrease was of a similar level to the variation observed in 3 month old mice (see Figure 3), the IOPs of control young mice (see Methods) analyzed at the same times as the various B6 age groups did not decrease.
24
B6 Although the decrease was of a similar level to the variation observed in 3 month old mice (see Figure 3), the IOPs of control young mice (see Methods) analyzed at the same times as the various B6 age groups did not decrease.
B6 For example, control mice analyzed at the same time as the 3 month, 12 month and 18 month B6 age groups had IOPs of 13.0 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.3 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.7 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 12), respectively.
B6 IOP was even lower in the 24 month B6 mice (10.8 ± 0.4 mmHg), and again the average IOP of young controls measured at the same time was not changed (13.5 ± 0.2, n = 12).
B6  To determine if albinism alters IOP, we analyzed B6 mice that were either pigmented or albino.
B6 In contrast to pigmented B6 mice (Figure 6), the IOPs of the albino B6 mice were not increased at measurement during the dark compared to light period of the day (P = 0.6, Figure 10B).
25
the various B6 age groups Although the decrease was of a similar level to the variation observed in 3 month old mice (see Figure 3), the IOPs of control young mice (see Methods) analyzed at the same times as the various B6 age groups did not decrease.
B6 age groups For example, control mice analyzed at the same time as the 3 month, 12 month and 18 month B6 age groups had IOPs of 13.0 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.3 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.7 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 12), respectively.
26
strains B6 and C3H/HeJ Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
C3H/HeJ. The C57BL/6J and 129P3/J groups IOP decreased significantly in strains C57BL/6J and 129P3/J but not C3H/HeJ. The C57BL/6J and 129P3/J groups consisted of approximately equal numbers of males and females.
the glaucomatous strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty We previously demonstrated that the glaucomatous strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty develop elevated IOP with age [14,19].
the examined strains Gender  In the examined strains, we found no consistent differences in IOP between males and females.
the 3 strains that were aged to 18 months or older This was true at all ages for the 3 strains that were aged to 18 months or older.
strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty Of possible relevance, we previously reported that female mice of strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty develop elevated IOP at an earlier age than males [14,19].
these mouse strains Analysis of these mouse strains may increase understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP and that may be relevant to glaucoma.
27
strain 129P3/J  In strain 129P3/J, IOP did not differ significantly with age between 3 and 14 months but was lower in 18 month old mice (P < 0.001 compared to all younger ages, Figure 4).
strain 129P3/J Sex differences were always absent in strain 129P3/J and typically absent in strain B6.
28
strain B6 Sex differences were always absent in strain 129P3/J and typically absent in strain B6.
strain B6 In strain B6, however, males infrequently had significantly higher IOP than females.
29
IOP To further assess the effects of anesthesia, we measured IOP in groups of genetically identical B6 mice subjected to different doses (1X, 1.5X and 2X) at 5 and 25 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
IOP For all doses, IOP decreased by 25 minutes (P = 0.005 for time).
IOP The greater the dose the greater the decrease in IOP.
IOP In support of a later effect of anesthesia (since general anesthesia is reported to mask diurnal variation in IOP [21]), we identified increased IOP during the dark compared to the light period of the day in several tested strains (Figure 6).
30
all doses For all doses, IOP decreased by 25 minutes (P = 0.005 for time).
all doses At the 5 minute measurement, however, IOP was the same using all doses suggesting that the anesthetic effect on IOP had not yet occurred.
31
These studies These studies demonstrate that mice are a practical and powerful experimental system to study the genetics of IOP regulation and disease processes that raise IOP to harmful levels.
these experiments In these experiments, IOP measurements were made between 5 and 12 minutes after administration of anesthesia.
the rat and mouse IOP studies Essentially the same dose of ketamine and route of administration was used in both the rat and mouse IOP studies.
the aging experiments It was not possible to analyze all age groups of each strain at the same time in the aging experiments.
32
three relatively unrelated mouse strains Approximately thirty 3 to 4 month old mice were analyzed at each dose and time B-D. Scatter-plots demonstrating no change in IOP over the 12 minutes following anesthetic administration in three relatively unrelated mouse strains.
All strains All strains consisted of males and females that ranged from 3 to 6 months of age.
these mouse strains Sequencing identified two alleles of Myoc in these mouse strains (see text).
33
Scatter-plots Approximately thirty 3 to 4 month old mice were analyzed at each dose and time B-D. Scatter-plots demonstrating no change in IOP over the 12 minutes following anesthetic administration in three relatively unrelated mouse strains.
The scatter-plots The scatter-plots include 195 C57BL/6J, 161 129P3/J and 145 DBA/2J mice.
34
Figure 7  Blood pressure does not correlate with IOP  An initial study of the relationship between blood pressure and IOP in mice did not detect a good correlation (R2 = 0.1, Figure 7).
Figure 7 Figure 7  No correlation between blood pressure and IOP.
Figure 8 Figure 8
35
each strain There is no strong correlation between the average systolic blood pressure of each strain and the average IOP of that strain (R2 = 0.1).
that strain There is no strong correlation between the average systolic blood pressure of each strain and the average IOP of that strain (R2 = 0.1).
36
195 mice of strain B6 To identify any early window when it may be possible to assess IOP without an obvious anesthetic effect, 195 mice of strain B6 were anesthetized with the 1X dose and IOP was measured at 1 minute time points between 4 and 12 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
All mice All mice were female and 2 to 4 months old, with the exception that the female CBA/CaJ used for IOP assessment were 6 to 7 months old.
the rats The IOP depression occurred very soon after anesthesia in the rats but was delayed in the mice.
the mice The IOP depression occurred very soon after anesthesia in the rats but was delayed in the mice.
the mice We use wood shavings for bedding and wood shavings expose the mice to terpenes.
37
the BUB/BnJ mice Approximately half of the CE/J and one third of the BUB/BnJ mice were 16 months old and were pooled with the younger mice, as the IOPs of both ages were the same.
the CBA/CaJ mice If the CBA/CaJ mice are excluded, R2 drops to 0.01 of ARK/J, C57BL/6J and SJL/J, strain ARK/J had the lowest IOP.
38
the myocilin gene (MYOC  Myoc alleles do not associate with the magnitude of IOP  Mutations in the myocilin gene (MYOC) cause human glaucoma.
the mouse Myoc gene To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
the gene To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
CAII It also is possible that CAII substantially contributes to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse CAIV is sufficient to prevent an effect of CAII deficiency on IOP in Car2 mutant mice.
CAII It also is possible that CAII substantially contributes to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse CAIV is sufficient to prevent an effect of CAII deficiency on IOP in Car2 mutant mice.
39
Two alleles Two alleles were identified.
these alleles One of these alleles had a 12 nucleotide insertion in the promoter region (ccagagcagggt, between positions -340 and -341) compared to the previously published sequence and is called the insertion allele.
40
the previously published sequence One of these alleles had a 12 nucleotide insertion in the promoter region (ccagagcagggt, between positions -340 and -341) compared to the previously published sequence and is called the insertion allele.
the published sequence The other allele was identical to the published sequence [22].
41
The other allele The other allele was identical to the published sequence [22].
The insertion allele The insertion allele also had a previously reported substitution (A to G, Thr164Ala) in exon 1 and several other single base changes in the promoter region [22].
this allele The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).
it The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).
Figure 6 In contrast to pigmented B6 mice (Figure 6), the IOPs of the albino B6 mice were not increased at measurement during the dark compared to light period of the day (P = 0.6, Figure 10B).
42
22 The other allele was identical to the published sequence [22].
22 The insertion allele also had a previously reported substitution (A to G, Thr164Ala) in exon 1 and several other single base changes in the promoter region [22].
43
Myoc  Myoc alleles do not associate with the magnitude of IOP  Mutations in the myocilin gene (MYOC) cause human glaucoma.
Myoc  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
Myoc Sequencing identified two alleles of Myoc in these mouse strains (see text).
44
a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region Mouse strains homozygous for an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region are shown as open bars and strains homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bars.
this insertion Mouse strains homozygous for an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region are shown as open bars and strains homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bars.
45
The Y chromosome Genetic alterations and IOP  Y Chromosome  The Y chromosome has been implicated in strain specific blood pressure differences in rats [23,24].
the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola To test if the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola alters IOP in relation to that of strain B6, we compared the IOPs of pure B6 males and consomic B6 males that had the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome (backcrossed for 11 generations).
46
pure B6 males To test if the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola alters IOP in relation to that of strain B6, we compared the IOPs of pure B6 males and consomic B6 males that had the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome (backcrossed for 11 generations).
these groups of mice No differences in IOP were detected between these groups of mice (Figure 9, P = 0.1).
47
C57BL/6J (n = 20) Y chromosome (Y Chr There is no difference in IOP between 3 to 4 month old males with either the 129P2/Ola (n = 18) or C57BL/6J (n = 20) Y chromosome (Y Chr).
The 129 Y Chr The 129 Y Chr had been backcrossed to strain C57BL/6J for 11 generations.
48
4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) However, 4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) had significantly higher IOPs than their heterozygous age and sex matched littermates.
their However, 4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) had significantly higher IOPs than their heterozygous age and sex matched littermates.
db /db males of this age Blood sugar levels in db /db males of this age are almost always in the diabetic range whereas those of heterozygotes are not [[27]].
these animals As demonstrated here, the IOPs of C57BL/6J are very consistent over time and so these animals were interspersed with experimental mice during all experiments to ensure that calibration had not drifted and that the system was functioning optimally.
49
are Blood sugar levels in db /db males of this age are almost always in the diabetic range whereas those of heterozygotes are not [[27]].
This This was recently confirmed in cohorts of approximately 25 males of each genotype (mean ± SD; db/db 422 ± 110 mg/dl ; db/+ 147 ± 19 mg/dl; Anthony Nicholson, The Jackson Laboratory, personal communication)  Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
50
Car2 This was recently confirmed in cohorts of approximately 25 males of each genotype (mean ± SD; db/db 422 ± 110 mg/dl ; db/+ 147 ± 19 mg/dl; Anthony Nicholson, The Jackson Laboratory, personal communication)  Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
the Car2 gene This was recently confirmed in cohorts of approximately 25 males of each genotype (mean ± SD; db/db 422 ± 110 mg/dl ; db/+ 147 ± 19 mg/dl; Anthony Nicholson, The Jackson Laboratory, personal communication)  Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
51
B6 mice that were either pigmented or albino  To determine if albinism alters IOP, we analyzed B6 mice that were either pigmented or albino.
The albino mice The albino mice were homozygous and coisogenic for a mutant allele of tyrosinase (Tyrc-2J) that arose on the otherwise pigmented B6 background.
the albino B6 mice In contrast to pigmented B6 mice (Figure 6), the IOPs of the albino B6 mice were not increased at measurement during the dark compared to light period of the day (P = 0.6, Figure 10B).
All mice All mice were bred and maintained at The Jackson Laboratory.
52
a mutant allele of tyrosinase (Tyrc-2J) that arose on the otherwise pigmented B6 background The albino mice were homozygous and coisogenic for a mutant allele of tyrosinase (Tyrc-2J) that arose on the otherwise pigmented B6 background.
Tyrc-2J In 2 month old mice, homozygosity for Tyrc-2J resulted in increased IOP (14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg) compared to wild type, pigmented mice (12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg, P < 0.0001).
53
Figure 10A The same was true for independent cohorts of mice of different ages that were analyzed at different times (Figure 10A).
Figure 10 Figure 10
54
the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome To test if the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola alters IOP in relation to that of strain B6, we compared the IOPs of pure B6 males and consomic B6 males that had the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome (backcrossed for 11 generations).
the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation have higher IOP than their normal counterparts at all tested ages.
55
Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation have higher IOP than their normal counterparts at all tested ages.
their Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation have higher IOP than their normal counterparts at all tested ages.
All groups All groups consisted of male and female mice.
56
the dark period of the day B. IOP is not increased during the dark period of the day in Tyrc-2J homozygotes.
the light period The number of mice analyzed during the light period were: 2 month, 28 +/+, 29 c-2J/c-2J, 4 month, 20 +/+ and 20 c-2J/c-2J, 8 month, 15 +/+ and 15 c-2J/c-2J.
the dark period of the day Fourteen mice of each genotype were successfully analyzed during the dark period of the day.
57
IOP differences between strains The magnitude of IOP differences between strains and the good reproducibility of readings over time will allow the use of genetic approaches to identify genes that underlie these differences.
these differences The magnitude of IOP differences between strains and the good reproducibility of readings over time will allow the use of genetic approaches to identify genes that underlie these differences.
58
quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis methods Thus it is feasible to assess sufficient numbers of mice for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis methods and to use these methods to identify chromosomal regions contributing to strain differences in IOP.
these methods Thus it is feasible to assess sufficient numbers of mice for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis methods and to use these methods to identify chromosomal regions contributing to strain differences in IOP.
59
These These are important approaches as they may allow the association of genes with IOP and glaucoma whose currently known functions do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates.
they These are important approaches as they may allow the association of genes with IOP and glaucoma whose currently known functions do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates.
they These are important approaches as they may allow the association of genes with IOP and glaucoma whose currently known functions do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates.
60
IOP  No effect of anesthetic protocol on IOP during a 12 minute measurement window  Many anesthetic agents including xylazine lower IOP. Ketamine usually appears to increase IOP [31-33], but there are reports of ketamine having no effect on IOP or even reducing IOP [31,34].
IOP  No effect of anesthetic protocol on IOP during a 12 minute measurement window  Many anesthetic agents including xylazine lower IOP. Ketamine usually appears to increase IOP [31-33], but there are reports of ketamine having no effect on IOP or even reducing IOP [31,34].
IOP An anesthetic effect could potentially alter IOP and mask genetically determined differences in IOP.
IOP An anesthetic effect could potentially alter IOP and mask genetically determined differences in IOP.
IOP Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
IOP Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
IOP Thus, to avoid effects of anesthesia on IOP, all measurements should be made within a window of up to 12 minutes after anesthetic administration.
IOP In contrast, intraperitoneally administered ketamine (100 mg/kg) was shown to rapidly decrease IOP in a different rat study [36].
IOP IOP decreased significantly between a conscious measurement and the first possible measurement under anesthesia (defined as time 0).
IOP IOP decreased further by the next reading (at 5 minutes) after which it remained stable for the duration of the experiment (20 minutes)[36].
it IOP decreased further by the next reading (at 5 minutes) after which it remained stable for the duration of the experiment (20 minutes)[36].
IOP Thus, although both rat and mouse studies show that anesthesia decreases IOP, the studies do not agree on the timing of the effect.
IOP The IOP depression occurred very soon after anesthesia in the rats but was delayed in the mice.
elevated IOP Similarly, diabetes or the combination of diabetes and obesity have been variably associated with elevated IOP and glaucoma [46,52,58-62].
IOP Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
IOP Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
IOP Exposing rats to 24 hours of low light abrogates the diurnal fluctuation of IOP and results in constantly elevated IOP [36].
IOP Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
IOP Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
IOP Conclusions  A broad range of reproducible IOP differences exists between inbred mouse strains and a diurnal rhythm of IOP exists in different strains.
IOP Various factors have been variably associated with risk for increased IOP in humans.
IOP When adequate anesthesia was achieved (after 3 to 4 minutes), the mouse was placed on the measurement platform and the white light of the microscope was turned on (for approximately 1 and a half minutes) to allow ocular cannulation, IOP measurement and post-measurement tests [13] that guard against artifactual data.
the IOP The white light was used at very low intensity and was dim but we cannot rule out the possibility that this brief exposure altered the IOP.
61
An anesthetic effect An anesthetic effect could potentially alter IOP and mask genetically determined differences in IOP.
this effect Therefore, it is very important to understand this effect.
62
both rat and mouse studies Thus, although both rat and mouse studies show that anesthesia decreases IOP, the studies do not agree on the timing of the effect.
the studies Thus, although both rat and mouse studies show that anesthesia decreases IOP, the studies do not agree on the timing of the effect.
63
factors such as diabetes, vascular hypertension, arterial hypotension, vasospasm, aberrant autoregulation of blood flow and sex in glaucoma Risk factors for increased IOP  Some epidemiological studies implicate factors such as diabetes, vascular hypertension, arterial hypotension, vasospasm, aberrant autoregulation of blood flow and sex in glaucoma.
these factors Other studies find no association between these factors and glaucoma [2,46-48].
64
various factors including age, gender, blood pressure, obesity and diabetes Similarly, the effects of various factors including age, gender, blood pressure, obesity and diabetes have been variably associated with elevated IOP.
these latter factors We evaluated the relationship between these latter factors and IOP in genetically homogeneous mouse strains in a controlled environment.
65
Tyr Tyr
the IOP of B6 mice  Although within the range of variability observed in young mice, the IOP of B6 mice modestly decreased around 1 year of age.
increased IOP Thus, epidemiological associations between increased IOP and obesity or diabetes are supported by this work and appear to be functionally relevant.
66
decreased  Although within the range of variability observed in young mice, the IOP of B6 mice modestly decreased around 1 year of age.
This decrease This decrease was statistically significant compared to young mice measured at the same time.
67
B6 mice At 2 years of age the IOP of B6 mice had decreased further, though an effect of anesthesia in these very old mice cannot be ruled out [49].
these very old mice At 2 years of age the IOP of B6 mice had decreased further, though an effect of anesthesia in these very old mice cannot be ruled out [49].
68
Car2 Similarly, 6 to 9 month old males and females that are homozygous for normal (+) or mutant (n) alleles of Car2 have similar IOPs (n = 18 and 14, respectively).
B6 Further studies of B6 mice may allow experimental investigation of this effect.
69
correlates Decreasing IOP correlates with increasing age in the human Japanese population [50,51].
this effect Further studies of B6 mice may allow experimental investigation of this effect.
this finding In agreement with this finding, circadian regulation of wheel running by light was previously reported in mice lacking rods and cones [70].
70
found Gender  In the examined strains, we found no consistent differences in IOP between males and females.
This This was true at all ages for the 3 strains that were aged to 18 months or older.
This This is in agreement with a number of human studies, which show that IOP is equal between the sexes [52,53].
71
groups of mice To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
they To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
The obese, diabetic mice The obese, diabetic mice had higher IOPs than their lean, non-diabetic littermates.
their The obese, diabetic mice had higher IOPs than their lean, non-diabetic littermates.
72
compared To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
this work Thus, epidemiological associations between increased IOP and obesity or diabetes are supported by this work and appear to be functionally relevant.
73
the dark period of the day IOP is increased during the dark period of the day  Diurnal variation in IOP is common in humans and laboratory animals [53].
the dark period We first suspected IOP changes with time of day when the IOP of a group of B6 mice measured in the hour prior to onset of the dark period appeared to be higher than at other times of day.
the dark period Previously, a rise of IOP was reported to occur before onset of the dark period in rats [21], and rats and rabbits were shown to have higher IOP during the dark period compared to the light period [21,68,69].
the dark period Previously, a rise of IOP was reported to occur before onset of the dark period in rats [21], and rats and rabbits were shown to have higher IOP during the dark period compared to the light period [21,68,69].
74
the light period Previously, a rise of IOP was reported to occur before onset of the dark period in rats [21], and rats and rabbits were shown to have higher IOP during the dark period compared to the light period [21,68,69].
the light period Thus, we compared the IOPs of mice at different times of day and identified several strains with significantly higher IOP during the dark compared to the light period.
the red light Each mouse was briefly exposed to the red light when the anesthetic agents were administered.
75
functional rod and cone photoreceptors The IOP increase in the dark is not dependent on functional rod and cone photoreceptors since these cells degenerate in SWR/J mice due to homozygosity for the Pde6brd1 mutation.
these cells The IOP increase in the dark is not dependent on functional rod and cone photoreceptors since these cells degenerate in SWR/J mice due to homozygosity for the Pde6brd1 mutation.
76
the diurnal rhythm of intraocular pressure in mice Further more detailed studies are needed to define the characteristics of the diurnal rhythm of intraocular pressure in mice, and to determine whether it is lacking or has a different timing in strain CBA/CaJ.
it Further more detailed studies are needed to define the characteristics of the diurnal rhythm of intraocular pressure in mice, and to determine whether it is lacking or has a different timing in strain CBA/CaJ.
77
the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP Analysis of these mouse strains may increase understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP and that may be relevant to glaucoma.
that Analysis of these mouse strains may increase understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP and that may be relevant to glaucoma.
78
aqueous humor secretion  Car2 deficiency does not alter IOP  Bicarbonate formation is important for aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary processes and carbonic anhydrase (CA) facilitates this secretion.
this secretion  Car2 deficiency does not alter IOP  Bicarbonate formation is important for aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary processes and carbonic anhydrase (CA) facilitates this secretion.
79
the Car2 gene Our experiments show that a genetic deficiency of CAII in mice homozygous for a mutation in the Car2 gene does not alter IOP.
Car2 It also is possible that CAII substantially contributes to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse CAIV is sufficient to prevent an effect of CAII deficiency on IOP in Car2 mutant mice.
80
various ocular consequences Tyrosinase deficiency causes albinism and has various ocular consequences.
these abnormalities It is not known if these abnormalities affect mammalian IOP.
81
B6 Here, we show increased IOP in mice lacking tyrosinase activity compared to otherwise genetically identical pigmented B6 mice.
B6 Additionally, IOP differences between the light and dark period of the day were detected in the pigmented but not the albino B6 mice.
82
B6 mice  Although within the range of variability observed in young mice, the IOP of B6 mice modestly decreased around 1 year of age.
the albino B6 mice Additionally, IOP differences between the light and dark period of the day were detected in the pigmented but not the albino B6 mice.
the albino B6 mice Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
83
affect Thus, albinism can affect the diurnal pattern of IOP changes.
this result In agreement with this result, mice with albino eyes that are homozygous for tyrosinase or pink eye dilution mutations have altered diurnal rhythms compared to pigmented mice [75].
84
Albinism Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
itself Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
85
the diurnal rhythm of IOP Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
it Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
86
the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
its Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
87
Various factors Various factors have been variably associated with risk for increased IOP in humans.
these risk factors Genetically uniform, mice can be used to study the effects of these risk factors on IOP.
88
IOP In trained hands, our measurement procedure is reliable, accurate and rapid enough to allow large scale genetic studies of factors determining IOP.
IOP Mice have great potential for helping to characterize the molecular mechanisms affecting IOP.
89
Mice Mice were housed in cages containing white pine bedding and covered with polyester filters.
the mice For most experiments, the mice were fed NIH31 (6 % fat) chow ad libitum, and their water was acidified to pH 2.8 to 3.2.
their For most experiments, the mice were fed NIH31 (6 % fat) chow ad libitum, and their water was acidified to pH 2.8 to 3.2.
The mice The mice were group housed and the cages were changed one time per week.
the mice If any cage appeared soiled between scheduled changes, the mice were placed in a clean cage.
The mice The mice were typically acclimatized to the procedure room for at least 2 weeks prior to measurement, but sometimes between 1 and 2 weeks.
the animals Whenever possible, the investigator measuring IOP did not know the genotypes of the animals.
The mice The mice were analyzed in the same procedure room as was used for IOP measurment.
90
B6 mice B6 mice develop diet induced diabetes when maintained on a high fat diet [76].
the B6 mice in the aging experiment To ensure that we were analyzing the effect of age and not diabetes, the B6 mice in the aging experiment were fed NIH31 (4% fat) chow.
91
NIH31 (6 % fat) chow For most experiments, the mice were fed NIH31 (6 % fat) chow ad libitum, and their water was acidified to pH 2.8 to 3.2.
NIH31 (4% fat) chow To ensure that we were analyzing the effect of age and not diabetes, the B6 mice in the aging experiment were fed NIH31 (4% fat) chow.
92
a high fat diet B6 mice develop diet induced diabetes when maintained on a high fat diet [76].
this otherwise identical diet We have found no differences in IOP between B6 mice housed on the 4% fat and 6% fat versions of this otherwise identical diet.
93
cages Mice were housed in cages containing white pine bedding and covered with polyester filters.
the cages The mice were group housed and the cages were changed one time per week.
94
Each mouse Each mouse was briefly exposed to the red light when the anesthetic agents were administered.
the mouse When adequate anesthesia was achieved (after 3 to 4 minutes), the mouse was placed on the measurement platform and the white light of the microscope was turned on (for approximately 1 and a half minutes) to allow ocular cannulation, IOP measurement and post-measurement tests [13] that guard against artifactual data.
95
the white light of the microscope When adequate anesthesia was achieved (after 3 to 4 minutes), the mouse was placed on the measurement platform and the white light of the microscope was turned on (for approximately 1 and a half minutes) to allow ocular cannulation, IOP measurement and post-measurement tests [13] that guard against artifactual data.
The white light The white light was used at very low intensity and was dim but we cannot rule out the possibility that this brief exposure altered the IOP.
96
used The white light was used at very low intensity and was dim but we cannot rule out the possibility that this brief exposure altered the IOP.
this brief exposure The white light was used at very low intensity and was dim but we cannot rule out the possibility that this brief exposure altered the IOP.
97
4% paraformaldehyde Histological analysis  Eyes from at least 2 mice of the listed strains were fixed (4% paraformaldehyde or Fekete's acid-alcohol-formalin fixative) processed, paraffin embedded and sectioned as previously reported [15,79], except that the paraformaldehyde was buffered with 0.1 M phosphate buffer.
the paraformaldehyde Histological analysis  Eyes from at least 2 mice of the listed strains were fixed (4% paraformaldehyde or Fekete's acid-alcohol-formalin fixative) processed, paraffin embedded and sectioned as previously reported [15,79], except that the paraformaldehyde was buffered with 0.1 M phosphate buffer.
98
Saggital sections including the pupil and optic nerve Saggital sections including the pupil and optic nerve were collected and analyzed as they contain most ocular structures.
they Saggital sections including the pupil and optic nerve were collected and analyzed as they contain most ocular structures.
99
Myoc  Analysis of Myoc  Exons and the proximal promoter of the mouse Myoc gene were amplified from mouse genomic DNA using the following combinations of primers:  Exon 1: 5'-cttgcaggagaactttccagaa-3' and 5'-atctcgaaggagattgttatagg-3'  5'-gaccagctggagacccaaaccag-3' and 5'-gctcagatccactgacctaaa-3'  Exon 2: 5'-tgaagccatactttaccaaccat-3' and 5'-caaaagggagaagtctaacttc-3'  Exon 3: 5'-agtcaaggctcacagagctaa-3' and 5'-aagagtagctgctcaccgtgtacaag-3'  5'-agacattgacttagctgtggat-3' and 5'-cggaacttcaccttttctggc-3'  Promoter: 5'-taggagaagtctcattatactgc-3' and 5'-ttcactggaccagcataagga-3'  5'-tctgaggatgttcacaggtttat-3' and 5'-tcttctggaaagttctcctgca-3'  Samples underwent 30 cycles of amplification with Perkin-Elmer Taq polymerase in a PTC Thermal Cycler (MJ Research, MA) (94° for 40 sec, 57° for 1 min, 72° for 2 min).
Myoc  Analysis of Myoc  Exons and the proximal promoter of the mouse Myoc gene were amplified from mouse genomic DNA using the following combinations of primers:  Exon 1: 5'-cttgcaggagaactttccagaa-3' and 5'-atctcgaaggagattgttatagg-3'  5'-gaccagctggagacccaaaccag-3' and 5'-gctcagatccactgacctaaa-3'  Exon 2: 5'-tgaagccatactttaccaaccat-3' and 5'-caaaagggagaagtctaacttc-3'  Exon 3: 5'-agtcaaggctcacagagctaa-3' and 5'-aagagtagctgctcaccgtgtacaag-3'  5'-agacattgacttagctgtggat-3' and 5'-cggaacttcaccttttctggc-3'  Promoter: 5'-taggagaagtctcattatactgc-3' and 5'-ttcactggaccagcataagga-3'  5'-tctgaggatgttcacaggtttat-3' and 5'-tcttctggaaagttctcctgca-3'  Samples underwent 30 cycles of amplification with Perkin-Elmer Taq polymerase in a PTC Thermal Cycler (MJ Research, MA) (94° for 40 sec, 57° for 1 min, 72° for 2 min).
100
  Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
pressure Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
101
Intraocular Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
( Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
