0
two polypeptides : Alpha-Crystallin is comprised of two polypeptides, alphaA-crystallin (alphaA) and alphaB-crystallin (alphaB), which share 55% amino acid sequence homology [1].
They : They are the most abundant proteins in lens fiber cells [2,3] and exist as heteroaggregates of approximately 800 kDa that can undergo inter-aggregate subunit exchange [4].
these two proteins : The expression of these two proteins in the lens epithelium, however, is not uniform throughout different regions of the anterior epithelium.
these proteins in lens differentiation : In addition, the administration of exogenous alpha-crystallin to primary bovine lens epithelial cell cultures resulted in the formation of lentoid bodies, consistent with a role for these proteins in lens differentiation [21].
All animals : All animals were treated in accordance with the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology Statement for the Use of Animals in Ophthalmic and Vision Research.
1
central epithelium : AlphaB expression is detected in central epithelium and increases from the central to elongation zones, where epithelial cells differentiate into fiber cells.
the central epithelium : AlphaA, however, is not detected in the central epithelium.
2
alphaA : The relative proportion of alphaA and alphaB changes from a molar ratio of 1:3 in the pericentral and germative zones to a molar ratio of 3:1 in the elongation zone and fiber cells [2,3].
alphaA : These differences in the relative proportions of alphaA and alphaB within the lens suggest different functions for the two subunits in the developing lens.
AlphaA : AlphaA and alphaB were also shown to have sequence homology with several other proteins that are members of the small heat shock protein (hsp) family [7].
alphaA : Both alphaA and alphaB can bind specifically to actin, in vitro [13] and in vivo [14].
5 wk : Fiber cells attached to the posterior capsule and extending anteriorly were observed in 5 wk (Figure 3O), 46 wk (Figure 3T) and 72 wk (data not shown) wild type lenses.
alphaA : Both alphaA and alphaB can bind specifically to actin, both in vitro [13] and in vivo [14].
3
alphaB : The relative proportion of alphaA and alphaB changes from a molar ratio of 1:3 in the pericentral and germative zones to a molar ratio of 3:1 in the elongation zone and fiber cells [2,3].
alphaB : AlphaA and alphaB were also shown to have sequence homology with several other proteins that are members of the small heat shock protein (hsp) family [7].
4
the lens : These differences in the relative proportions of alphaA and alphaB within the lens suggest different functions for the two subunits in the developing lens.
the lens : Moreover, expression of alpha-crystallin, particularly alphaB, was shown to not be restricted to the lens.
the lens : In the lens, alpha-crystallin also associates with type III intermediate filament proteins and the beaded filament proteins CP49 and CP115, and correct beaded filament assembly has been shown depend on the presence of alpha-crystallin [16].
the lens : A nuclear role for alphaB in the lens was supported by the findings that a subset of lens epithelial cells derived from alphaB knockout mice demonstrated hyperproliferation and genomic instability [20].
the lens : This indicates that alphaA may play a greater role in maintaining the transparency of the lens then alphaB.
the lens : This was supported by the morphological observation made in this study of no posterior sutures or fiber cells extending to the posterior capsule of the lens, ectopically staining nucleic acids in the posterior subcapsular region of 5 wk and anterior subcapsular cortex of 54 wk, gross morphological differences in the equatorial/bow, posterior and anterior regions of lenses from alphaA/BKO mice as compared to wild mice.
5
alphaB : Moreover, expression of alpha-crystallin, particularly alphaB, was shown to not be restricted to the lens.
AlphaB : AlphaB was found to be expressed at significant levels in a variety of nonlenticular tissues, while alphaA has only been detected in small amounts in a few other tissues such as retina, spleen and thymus [8-12].
6
alphaB : In transfected CHO cells, alphaB has also been shown to ectopically localize to interphase nuclei, suggesting a role for this protein in the nucleus [19].
this protein : In transfected CHO cells, alphaB has also been shown to ectopically localize to interphase nuclei, suggesting a role for this protein in the nucleus [19].
7
the mouse alphaA gene : Brady et al. [22] demonstrated, by targeted disruption of the mouse alphaA gene, that this protein was essential for the maintenance of lens transparency, possibly by maintaining the solubility of alphaB, or associated proteins, in the lens.
this protein : Brady et al. [22] demonstrated, by targeted disruption of the mouse alphaA gene, that this protein was essential for the maintenance of lens transparency, possibly by maintaining the solubility of alphaB, or associated proteins, in the lens.
8
animal models :  One approach to resolving some of the in vivo functions of alpha-crystallin is to generate animal models where one or both of the alpha-crystallin gene products have been eliminated.
These lenses : These lenses were also reported to be smaller in equatorial and light axial dimensions than age matched wild type lens.
the smaller lenses : It was not possible using the techniques employed in the study to determine if the smaller lenses were due to reduced volume or number of fiber cells.
the alphaB knockout lenses : Moreover, no cataract formation was observed in the alphaB knockout lenses.
All wild type lenses : All wild type lenses were transparent upon removal from the eye (Figure 1D,1E and 1F) and had well defined posterior sutures.  Figure 1  Light micrographs of lenses dissected from fixed eyes of alphaA/BKO (A-C) and wild type (D-F) mice.
These lenses : These lenses were also reported to be smaller in equatorial and axial dimensions than age matched wild type lens, which was very similar to that which was observed with the double knockout lens.
9
this study : The purpose of this study was to characterize gross lenticular morphology in normal mice and mice with the targeted disruption of alphaA- and alphaB-crystallin genes (alphaA/BKO).
the study : It was not possible using the techniques employed in the study to determine if the smaller lenses were due to reduced volume or number of fiber cells.
the current report : The objectives of the current report were to characterize gross morphology of young (5 wk) and old (54 wk) mouse lenses with targeted disruption of both the alphaA and alphaB genes, in comparison to age matched wild type lenses, using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and confocal microscopy, to elucidate the possible functions of alpha-crystallin in the lens.
this study :  The wild type mouse strain used in this study was the 129SvEvTac mouse.
this study : This was supported by the morphological observation made in this study of no posterior sutures or fiber cells extending to the posterior capsule of the lens, ectopically staining nucleic acids in the posterior subcapsular region of 5 wk and anterior subcapsular cortex of 54 wk, gross morphological differences in the equatorial/bow, posterior and anterior regions of lenses from alphaA/BKO mice as compared to wild mice.
the current study : The results of the current study support the hypothesis that alpha-crystallin plays an active role in the differentiation and growth of lens fiber cells.
this study : This process did not appear to have proceeded normally in lenses lacking alphaA and alphaB. The morphological observations presented in this study demonstrate that fiber cells in lenses lacking alphaA and alphaB fail to elongate symmetrically from the bow region and therefore do not establish the typical "onion skin" conformation in which cells extend from the anterior epithelium to the posterior capsule.
the current study : These two possibilities could not be differentiated in the methods employed, and were beyond the objectives of the current study.
this study : Future studies with defined objectives to address the development and progression of morphological changes seen in this study are being designed.
the current study : The results of the current study support this hypothesis.
the current study : In the current study, the observation of a disorganized pattern of nuclei localized to the equatorial bow region of alphaA/BKO lenses, and nucleic acid staining of structures throughout the anterior cortex of 54 wk alphaA/BKO lenses, is consistent with a role for alpha-crystallin in the nucleus.
the study : Competing interests  None declared  Authors' contributions  DLB conceived and designed the study, carried out sample preparation, confocal microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, statistical analysis, and drafted the manuscript.
this paper :  Pre-publication history  The pre-publication history for this paper can be accessed here:
This research :    Acknowledgements  This research was supported in part by a NIH Grant for Vision Research EY02932 awarded to LT
10
alphaB : A nuclear role for alphaB in the lens was supported by the findings that a subset of lens epithelial cells derived from alphaB knockout mice demonstrated hyperproliferation and genomic instability [20].
the missing protein : These animals have muscle cell abnormalities, severe postural anomalies, selective muscle degeneration, and shorter life spans compared to normal controls [23].  In the single alpha-crystallin knockout mice, the remaining alpha-crystallin may fully or partially compensate for some of the functions of the missing protein, especially in the lens, where both alphaA and alphaB are normally expressed at high levels.
11
These results : Conclusion  These results indicated that both alphaA- and alphaB-crystallin are necessary for proper fiber cell formation, and that the absence of alpha-crystallin can lead to cataract formation.
The results : The results indicate that alpha-crystallin is necessary for proper fiber cell formation and resulting lens transparency.
These studies : These studies strongly suggest that the hsp family of proteins has other functions in addition to protecting proteins and cells during stress.
12
alphaBKO-168 mice :  AlphaA/BKO was generated by cross breeding alphaAKO-127 [22] and alphaBKO-168 mice [23], also in a 129Sv background.
These mice : These mice also lack the HSPB2 gene product [23].
13
fixed : Eyes were fixed for at least 24 hr at room temperature (RT) prior to dissection of the lenses.
this time : At this time, equatorial and axial dimensions of lenses and gross lenticular appearance were recorded.
14
TBS containing 1 μM SYTOX Green : Sections were then washed several times with Tris buffered saline, and nucleic acids were stained by incubating sections in TBS containing 1 μM SYTOX Green (Molecular Probes) for 10 min at RT followed by several washes with TBS prior to confocal imaging.
TBS : Sections were then washed several times with Tris buffered saline, and nucleic acids were stained by incubating sections in TBS containing 1 μM SYTOX Green (Molecular Probes) for 10 min at RT followed by several washes with TBS prior to confocal imaging.
15
lens halves : Once lens halves were in 100% ethanol, they were critical point dried in carbon dioxide in a Samdri-790B (Tousimis Research Corp., Rockville, MD).
they : Once lens halves were in 100% ethanol, they were critical point dried in carbon dioxide in a Samdri-790B (Tousimis Research Corp., Rockville, MD).
16
a Hitachi S-3500N scanning electron microscope : Mounted specimens were then sputter coated with gold and viewed on a Hitachi S-3500N scanning electron microscope (Tokyo, Japan) at 1–5 kV.
This microscope : This microscope is equipped with Hitachi's patented "Dual-Bias" which allows extremely high emission currents at acceleration voltages of 5 kV and lower.
17
Hitachi : Mounted specimens were then sputter coated with gold and viewed on a Hitachi S-3500N scanning electron microscope (Tokyo, Japan) at 1–5 kV.
Hitachi's : This microscope is equipped with Hitachi's patented "Dual-Bias" which allows extremely high emission currents at acceleration voltages of 5 kV and lower.
18
Figure 1B : AlphaA/BKO lenses at 5 wks of age exhibited vacuoles at the equatorial region (Figure 1A see arrows) and an area of slight light scatter at the posterior subcapsular regions (Figure 1B see arrowheads).
Figure 1 : All wild type lenses were transparent upon removal from the eye (Figure 1D,1E and 1F) and had well defined posterior sutures.  Figure 1  Light micrographs of lenses dissected from fixed eyes of alphaA/BKO (A-C) and wild type (D-F) mice.
19
Light micrographs of lenses dissected from fixed eyes of alphaA/BKO (A-C) and wild type (D-F) mice : All wild type lenses were transparent upon removal from the eye (Figure 1D,1E and 1F) and had well defined posterior sutures.  Figure 1  Light micrographs of lenses dissected from fixed eyes of alphaA/BKO (A-C) and wild type (D-F) mice.
All micrographs : All micrographs were generated using a 4 × /0.10 objective on a Zeiss LSM 410 using transmitted light mode.
20
(B : For all micrographs except (B) the objective focal point was set at the equatorial plane of the lens, while (B) was set at the posterior pole of the lens.
(B : For all micrographs except (B) the objective focal point was set at the equatorial plane of the lens, while (B) was set at the posterior pole of the lens.
21
the lens : For all micrographs except (B) the objective focal point was set at the equatorial plane of the lens, while (B) was set at the posterior pole of the lens.
the lens : For all micrographs except (B) the objective focal point was set at the equatorial plane of the lens, while (B) was set at the posterior pole of the lens.
22
SYTOX green : Examination of mid-axial sections stained with DiI and SYTOX green revealed unique differences in gross morphology and nucleic acid staining between alphaA/BKO lenses and wild type lenses (Figure 2).
Sytox green : In five week old alphaA/BKO lenses, Sytox green stained nuclei (green) in the anterior epithelium, equatorial/bow, and posterior subcapsular regions (Figure 2A).
23
the equatorial/bow region : Cell nuclei localized to the equatorial/bow region were disorganized as compared to wild type.
the equatorial/bow region : There were enlarged extracellular spaces between cells in the equatorial/bow region in 5 wk old alphaA/BKO lenses.
the equatorial region : In addition to the equatorial region, ultrastructural differences between alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3C and 3H) and wild type lenses (Figure 3M and 3R) were observed in fiber cells of the embryonic and fetal nucleus.
24
the entire anterior subcapsular lens region : Fifty-four wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 2B) did not stain for nucleic acid in the posterior subcapsular region, however, the entire anterior subcapsular lens region stained for nucleic acid (refer to Figure 3I for high magnification/resolution image of this area).
this area : Fifty-four wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 2B) did not stain for nucleic acid in the posterior subcapsular region, however, the entire anterior subcapsular lens region stained for nucleic acid (refer to Figure 3I for high magnification/resolution image of this area).
25
Fifty-four wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 2B) : Fifty-four wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 2B) did not stain for nucleic acid in the posterior subcapsular region, however, the entire anterior subcapsular lens region stained for nucleic acid (refer to Figure 3I for high magnification/resolution image of this area).
these older lenses : A defined equatorial/bow region was not observed in these older lenses, and fiber cells extending to the posterior capsule of the lens were not found.
26
the posterior subcapsular region : Fifty-four wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 2B) did not stain for nucleic acid in the posterior subcapsular region, however, the entire anterior subcapsular lens region stained for nucleic acid (refer to Figure 3I for high magnification/resolution image of this area).
the equatorial region : Disorganized cellular material capped the anterior region of the embryonic/fetal nucleus, and a distinctive indentation of the lens mass at the equatorial region was apparent in mid-axial sections as well as whole lenses.
27
the posterior capsule : In alphaA/BKO lenses the embryonic/fetal nucleus (primary lens fibers) had migrated posteriorly and appeared to be in contact with the posterior capsule.
the posterior capsule : In 5 wk, 46 wk or 72 wk old wild type lenses (Figure 2C,2D and 2E), however, there was no posterior or anterior subcapsular nucleic acid staining and the embryonic-fetal nucleus was centrally located, not in contact with the posterior capsule.  Figure 2  
the posterior capsule : At 5 wks of age cell nuclei were present, adjacent to the posterior capsule.
28
Figure 2 : Examination of mid-axial sections stained with DiI and SYTOX green revealed unique differences in gross morphology and nucleic acid staining between alphaA/BKO lenses and wild type lenses (Figure 2).
Figure 2 : In 5 wk, 46 wk or 72 wk old wild type lenses (Figure 2C,2D and 2E), however, there was no posterior or anterior subcapsular nucleic acid staining and the embryonic-fetal nucleus was centrally located, not in contact with the posterior capsule.  Figure 2  
29
Representative confocal optical sections : Representative confocal optical sections taken from mid-axial vibratome sections of alphaA/BKO (A&B) and wild type (C-E) lenses.
All optical sections : All optical sections were generated using a 4 × /0.10 objective on a Zeiss LSM 410.
30
Representative confocal optical sections from alphaA/BKO (A-J) and wild type (K-T) lenses : Representative confocal optical sections from alphaA/BKO (A-J) and wild type (K-T) lenses.
All optical sections : All optical sections were generated using a 63 × /1.4 objective on a Zeiss LSM 410.
31
SYTOX green : The arrowheads indicate representative anterior epithelial nuclei stained with SYTOX green.
SYTOX green : Arrowheads indicate representative nuclei stained with SYTOX green (A, B, E, F, G, I, K, L, P, and Q).  At higher magnification, examination of sections stained with DiI and SYTOX green revealed ultrastructural differences between alphaA/BKO lenses and wild type lenses (Figure 3).
SYTOX green : Arrowheads indicate representative nuclei stained with SYTOX green (A, B, E, F, G, I, K, L, P, and Q).  At higher magnification, examination of sections stained with DiI and SYTOX green revealed ultrastructural differences between alphaA/BKO lenses and wild type lenses (Figure 3).
SYTOX green : Anterior epithelial staining in 5 wk old alphaA/BKO (Figure 3A) and 5 wk old wild type lenses were similar (Figure 3K) with respect to nuclear staining with SYTOX green.
32
K : Anterior epithelial staining in 5 wk old alphaA/BKO (Figure 3A) and 5 wk old wild type lenses were similar (Figure 3K) with respect to nuclear staining with SYTOX green.
Figure 3K : However, some differences in 54 wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3F) were observed in the central anterior epithelium compared to 5 wk (Figure 3K), 46 wk (Figure 3P), and 72 wk (data not shown) wild type lenses.
Figure 3O : Fiber cells attached to the posterior capsule and extending anteriorly were observed in 5 wk (Figure 3O), 46 wk (Figure 3T) and 72 wk (data not shown) wild type lenses.
33
some differences in 54 wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3F) : However, some differences in 54 wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3F) were observed in the central anterior epithelium compared to 5 wk (Figure 3K), 46 wk (Figure 3P), and 72 wk (data not shown) wild type lenses.
These differences : These differences included changes in central epithelial nuclear staining, nuclear shape and epithelial thickness and continuity.
this hypothesis : The results of the current study support this hypothesis.
this hypothesis : The lack of cellar organization and uniform cell shape at the equatorial region observed in alphaA/BKO lenses supports this hypothesis.
34
stained membranes : In 5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses there was a high density of stained membranes per unit area throughout the cortex, with no nucleic acid staining in these regions.
these regions : In 5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses there was a high density of stained membranes per unit area throughout the cortex, with no nucleic acid staining in these regions.
35
large, irregularly shaped cells : In 54 wk alphaA/BKO lenses, large, irregularly shaped cells were observed, interspersed among regions of high membrane staining density per unit area.
These large objects : These large objects were not vacuoles, because examination of the interior of these structures by transmitted and reflected light microscopy showed that the membranes encompassed cellular material (data not shown).
these cells : In addition, nucleic acid staining was observed (Figure 3F and 3I) within many of these cells exhibiting large cross-sectional profiles.
these cells in the alphaA/BKO lenses : At 54 wk, these cells in the alphaA/BKO lenses were larger in cross sectional diameter than wild type, and exhibited a much greater variation in the cross sectional size and cell shape.
36
Figure 3F) : However, some differences in 54 wk old alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3F) were observed in the central anterior epithelium compared to 5 wk (Figure 3K), 46 wk (Figure 3P), and 72 wk (data not shown) wild type lenses.
Figure 3F and 3I : In addition, nucleic acid staining was observed (Figure 3F and 3I) within many of these cells exhibiting large cross-sectional profiles.
Figure 3C and 3H) : In addition to the equatorial region, ultrastructural differences between alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3C and 3H) and wild type lenses (Figure 3M and 3R) were observed in fiber cells of the embryonic and fetal nucleus.
Figure 4J : In the equatorial/bow region, a disorganized array of relatively small irregular shaped cells were observed in 5 wk (Figure 4A) and 54 wk (Figure 4D) alphaA/BKO lenses, while elongated fiber cells organized into radial columns, with ball and socket interdigitations, were observed in 5 wk (Figure 4G), 46 wk (Figure 4J) and 72 wk (data not shown) wild type lenses.
37
54 wk alphaA/BKO lenses : In 54 wk alphaA/BKO lenses, large, irregularly shaped cells were observed, interspersed among regions of high membrane staining density per unit area.
the wild type lenses : In the wild type lenses, typical cross-sectional patterns of fiber cells organized in radial columns were observed (Figure 3K,3N,3P and 3S).  
38
alphaA/BKO lenses : Ultrastructural differences at the equatorial/bow region were also observed between alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3B and 3G) and wild type lenses (Figure 3L and 3Q).
the alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3B and 3G : In contrast to wild type lenses (Figure 3L and 3Q), the alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3B and 3G) contained large areas devoid of cellular material, their nuclei were not limited to a well defined equatorial/bow region, and ordered radial columns of elongating fiber cells extending from the posterior capsule to the anterior epithelium were not observed.
their : In contrast to wild type lenses (Figure 3L and 3Q), the alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3B and 3G) contained large areas devoid of cellular material, their nuclei were not limited to a well defined equatorial/bow region, and ordered radial columns of elongating fiber cells extending from the posterior capsule to the anterior epithelium were not observed.
alphaA/BKO lenses : In addition to the equatorial region, ultrastructural differences between alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3C and 3H) and wild type lenses (Figure 3M and 3R) were observed in fiber cells of the embryonic and fetal nucleus.
the alphaA/BKO lenses : At 54 wk, these cells in the alphaA/BKO lenses were larger in cross sectional diameter than wild type, and exhibited a much greater variation in the cross sectional size and cell shape.
39
M and 3R : In addition to the equatorial region, ultrastructural differences between alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3C and 3H) and wild type lenses (Figure 3M and 3R) were observed in fiber cells of the embryonic and fetal nucleus.
M and 3R : In 5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses (Figure 3C), a greater variation in cross sectional diameter was observed, with cell diameters ranging from less than 2 microns up to approximately 25 microns, compared to the 5 wk and 46 wk wild type lenses, whose diameters ranged from less than 2 microns up to approximately 10 microns (Figure 3M and 3R).
40
radial columns of cells with numerous cell surface projections : In the anterior cortical region of 5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses, radial columns of cells with numerous cell surface projections were observed (Figure 4B), but these radial columns were no longer present at 54 weeks of age (Figure 4E).
these radial columns : In the anterior cortical region of 5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses, radial columns of cells with numerous cell surface projections were observed (Figure 4B), but these radial columns were no longer present at 54 weeks of age (Figure 4E).
41
5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses : In the anterior cortical region of 5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses, radial columns of cells with numerous cell surface projections were observed (Figure 4B), but these radial columns were no longer present at 54 weeks of age (Figure 4E).
these older lenses : In these older lenses, irregularly shaped, convoluted cells, with no recognizable pattern of organization, were present.
) alphaA/BKO lenses : The posterior subcapsular regions of 5 wk (Figure 4C) and 54 wk (Figure 4F) alphaA/BKO lenses were filled with irregularly shaped cells with numerous cell surface projections.
alphaA/BKO mouse lenses :  It is unlikely that these alterations in alphaA/BKO mouse lenses result from increased susceptibility of these lenses to light-induced damage in the absence of the molecular chaperone protection afforded by alphaA and alphaB in normal lenses.
these lenses :  It is unlikely that these alterations in alphaA/BKO mouse lenses result from increased susceptibility of these lenses to light-induced damage in the absence of the molecular chaperone protection afforded by alphaA and alphaB in normal lenses.
these lenses : If lack of protection from light-induced damage was the major factor affecting the changes in these lenses, then the bulk of the damage should have resided along the visual axis, particularly in the central anterior epithelium and subcapsular cortex in the 5 wk lenses, but this was not the case.
these lenses : In these lenses, gross morphological changes were apparent in the equatorial and posterior subcapsular regions.
alphaA/BKO lenses : The morphological differences in alphaA/BKO lenses, compared to age matched wild type lenses, were consistent with the hypothesis that alpha-crystallin plays an active role in the differentiation and growth of lens fiber cells.
42
Figure 3 : Figure 3  
Figure 4 : Figure 4  
43
Brady : Brady et al. [22] demonstrated, by targeted disruption of the mouse alphaA gene, that this protein was essential for the maintenance of lens transparency, possibly by maintaining the solubility of alphaB, or associated proteins, in the lens.
Brady : Brady et al. [22] demonstrated, by targeted disruption of the mouse alphaA gene, that this protein was essential for the maintenance of lens transparency, possibly by maintaining the solubility of alphaB, or associated proteins, in the lens.
44
the mouse alphaA gene : Brady et al. [22] demonstrated, by targeted disruption of the mouse alphaA gene, that this protein was essential for the maintenance of lens transparency, possibly by maintaining the solubility of alphaB, or associated proteins, in the lens.
this protein : Brady et al. [22] demonstrated, by targeted disruption of the mouse alphaA gene, that this protein was essential for the maintenance of lens transparency, possibly by maintaining the solubility of alphaB, or associated proteins, in the lens.
the mouse alphaB gene : Targeted disruption of the mouse alphaB gene, however, resulted in lenses similar in size to aged-matched wild type lens with no cataracts reported [23].
45
resulted : Targeted disruption of the mouse alphaB gene, however, resulted in lenses similar in size to aged-matched wild type lens with no cataracts reported [23].
This : This indicates that alphaA may play a greater role in maintaining the transparency of the lens then alphaB.
46
the mouse alphaB gene : Targeted disruption of the mouse alphaB gene resulted in lenses similar in size to aged-matched wild type lens.
the missing protein : In the single alpha-crystallin knockout mice, the remaining alpha-crystallin may fully or partially compensate for some of the functions of the missing protein, especially in the lens, where both alphaA and alphaB are normally expressed at high levels.
47
the single alpha-crystallin knockout mice : In the single alpha-crystallin knockout mice, the remaining alpha-crystallin may fully or partially compensate for some of the functions of the missing protein, especially in the lens, where both alphaA and alphaB are normally expressed at high levels.
alphaA/BKO mice : This was supported by the morphological observation made in this study of no posterior sutures or fiber cells extending to the posterior capsule of the lens, ectopically staining nucleic acids in the posterior subcapsular region of 5 wk and anterior subcapsular cortex of 54 wk, gross morphological differences in the equatorial/bow, posterior and anterior regions of lenses from alphaA/BKO mice as compared to wild mice.
the single alphaA or alphaB knockout mice : None of these morphological differences have been reported in the single alphaA or alphaB knockout mice.
the alphaA/BKO mice : It must be noted, however, that the alphaA/BKO mice also lack the HSPB2 gene product [23] and the contribution of this protein to normal lens morphology and functions should not be overlooked.
the Alpha/BKO mice : JPB assisted in the production of the Alpha/BKO mice.
the AlphaA/BKO mice : EFW assisted in the production of the AlphaA/BKO mice, experimental design, and initial fixation of samples.
48
gross morphological differences in the equatorial/bow, posterior and anterior regions of lenses from alphaA/BKO mice as compared to wild mice : This was supported by the morphological observation made in this study of no posterior sutures or fiber cells extending to the posterior capsule of the lens, ectopically staining nucleic acids in the posterior subcapsular region of 5 wk and anterior subcapsular cortex of 54 wk, gross morphological differences in the equatorial/bow, posterior and anterior regions of lenses from alphaA/BKO mice as compared to wild mice.
these morphological differences : None of these morphological differences have been reported in the single alphaA or alphaB knockout mice.
49
HSPB2 : It must be noted, however, that the alphaA/BKO mice also lack the HSPB2 gene product [23] and the contribution of this protein to normal lens morphology and functions should not be overlooked.
this protein : It must be noted, however, that the alphaA/BKO mice also lack the HSPB2 gene product [23] and the contribution of this protein to normal lens morphology and functions should not be overlooked.
HSPB2 : Future studies should address the possible functions of HSPB2 in normal lens.
50
the bow region : No elongated cells extending from the bow region to the posterior capsule of alphaA/BKO lenses were observed.
the bow region : This process did not appear to have proceeded normally in lenses lacking alphaA and alphaB. The morphological observations presented in this study demonstrate that fiber cells in lenses lacking alphaA and alphaB fail to elongate symmetrically from the bow region and therefore do not establish the typical "onion skin" conformation in which cells extend from the anterior epithelium to the posterior capsule.
the equatorial region : Systemic stress factors crossing the blood/aqueous barrier might explain some morphological changes at the equatorial region, but this would not explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region.
the posterior subcapsular region : Systemic stress factors crossing the blood/aqueous barrier might explain some morphological changes at the equatorial region, but this would not explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region.
the posterior subcapsular region : In the 5 wk alphaA/BKO lenses, nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region is consistent with either anterior epithelial cells migrating aberrantly to the posterior pole, or primary fiber cells failing to fully differentiate by 5 wks of age.
the posterior subcapsular region : Future studies are being designed to address which of these two processes might explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region.
this region : Staining in this region was not observed in older alphaA/BKO lenses, suggesting that this pattern was transient.
the posterior capsular region of younger lenses : The fate of the nucleic acid-containing cells in the posterior capsular region of younger lenses is not known at this time, nor is the morphology of earlier stage lenses.
51
5 wk : In the equatorial/bow region, a disorganized array of relatively small irregular shaped cells were observed in 5 wk (Figure 4A) and 54 wk (Figure 4D) alphaA/BKO lenses, while elongated fiber cells organized into radial columns, with ball and socket interdigitations, were observed in 5 wk (Figure 4G), 46 wk (Figure 4J) and 72 wk (data not shown) wild type lenses.
the 5 wk old mice : With the normal time of eye opening at approximately 14 days after birth, the 5 wk old mice had their eyes open and lenses exposed to light for only about 3 weeks prior to morphological analysis.
their : With the normal time of eye opening at approximately 14 days after birth, the 5 wk old mice had their eyes open and lenses exposed to light for only about 3 weeks prior to morphological analysis.
these animals : Moreover, these animals had been exposed to only animal facility fluorescent lighting and were protected from UV light by plastic cages.
52
resided : If lack of protection from light-induced damage was the major factor affecting the changes in these lenses, then the bulk of the damage should have resided along the visual axis, particularly in the central anterior epithelium and subcapsular cortex in the 5 wk lenses, but this was not the case.
this : If lack of protection from light-induced damage was the major factor affecting the changes in these lenses, then the bulk of the damage should have resided along the visual axis, particularly in the central anterior epithelium and subcapsular cortex in the 5 wk lenses, but this was not the case.
53
gross morphological changes : In these lenses, gross morphological changes were apparent in the equatorial and posterior subcapsular regions.
These changes : These changes included posterior subcapsular nucleic acid staining, absence of posterior sutures, and small irregularly shaped cells, not arranged in any discernable pattern, in the equatorial/bow region.
54
the equatorial/bow region of the lens : Differentiation of epithelial cells occurs in the equatorial/bow region of the lens, where epithelial cells begin to elongate and differentiate into fiber cells of uniform cellular shape, arranged in radial columns of cells extending from the anterior epithelium to the posterior capsule.
the equatorial/bow region : These changes included posterior subcapsular nucleic acid staining, absence of posterior sutures, and small irregularly shaped cells, not arranged in any discernable pattern, in the equatorial/bow region.
the equatorial/bow region of the lens :  The final biological event in a lens epithelial cell's life is the transformation from an epithelial cell into a fiber cell, which occurs at the equatorial/bow region of the lens.
55
explain : Systemic stress factors crossing the blood/aqueous barrier might explain some morphological changes at the equatorial region, but this would not explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region.
this : Systemic stress factors crossing the blood/aqueous barrier might explain some morphological changes at the equatorial region, but this would not explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region.
56
These two possibilities : These two possibilities could not be differentiated in the methods employed, and were beyond the objectives of the current study.
these two processes : Future studies are being designed to address which of these two processes might explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region.
57
a lens epithelial cell's :  The final biological event in a lens epithelial cell's life is the transformation from an epithelial cell into a fiber cell, which occurs at the equatorial/bow region of the lens.
The newly forming fiber cell : The newly forming fiber cell continues to differentiate in the cortex until a mature fiber cell devoid of organelles with suture formation at the ends of the cell is formed.
the cell : The newly forming fiber cell continues to differentiate in the cortex until a mature fiber cell devoid of organelles with suture formation at the ends of the cell is formed.
58
This entire process from epithelial cell to mature fiber cell : This entire process from epithelial cell to mature fiber cell is defined as lens differentiation.
the differentiation process : The precise spatial and temporal expression of the crystallin proteins in the developing lens may not be simply a consequence of the differentiation process, but instead may play an important, if not essential, role in the differentiation process itself.
the differentiation process itself : The precise spatial and temporal expression of the crystallin proteins in the developing lens may not be simply a consequence of the differentiation process, but instead may play an important, if not essential, role in the differentiation process itself.
itself : The precise spatial and temporal expression of the crystallin proteins in the developing lens may not be simply a consequence of the differentiation process, but instead may play an important, if not essential, role in the differentiation process itself.
59
molecular chaperone activity : Previous studies have shown that the alpha-crystallin possesses molecular chaperone activity, binding to partially denatured proteins, both in vitro [5] and probably in vivo [6], to inhibit further denaturation.
this property : Although this property may be a major contributor to the maintenance of lens clarity, the early changes in the alphaA/BKO lenses indicate a much broader cellular function for alpha-crystallin.
60
AlphaB, expressed in transfected CHO cells, : AlphaB, expressed in transfected CHO cells, has been shown to ectopically localize to interphase nuclei, suggesting a regulatory role for this protein in the nucleus [19].
this protein : AlphaB, expressed in transfected CHO cells, has been shown to ectopically localize to interphase nuclei, suggesting a regulatory role for this protein in the nucleus [19].
61
the manuscript : Competing interests  None declared  Authors' contributions  DLB conceived and designed the study, carried out sample preparation, confocal microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, statistical analysis, and drafted the manuscript.
the final manuscript : All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
