node_0
Brn3c : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Brn3c : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Brn3c : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Brn3c : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
Brn3c :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
Brn3c : Targeted null Brn3c mutants have no mature hair cells [1,2].
Brn3c : Close examination has revealed that some 'immature' hair cells form in Brn3c null mutants and express cellular markers such as Myosin VI and VIIa, calretinin and parvalbumin [3].
Brn3c : Furthermore, these immature hair cells of Brn3c null mutants undergo apoptosis in neonates [3].
Brn3c : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
Brn3c : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
Brn3c : Such selective loss in Brn3c null mutants would therefore indicate reduction of a specific neurotrophin in immature hair cells.
Brn3c : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
Brn3c : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
Brn3c : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
Brn3c : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
Brn3c : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
Brn3c : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Brn3c : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Brn3c : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
Brn3c : In newborn animals, the vestibular ganglion shows a dramatic reduction in Brn3c null mutants (b) compared to control littermates (a).
Brn3c : However, the Brn3c null mutants show only a reduced density of afferent and efferent fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia.
Brn3c : No loss in specific areas, comparable to that in BDNF null mutant mice, is apparent in the saccule or utricle of Brn3c null mice.
Brn3c : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
Brn3c : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
Brn3c :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
Brn3c : No selective loss of spiral neurons is observed in Brn3c null mutants in the basal turn, a feature of either NT-3 or trkC loss [6,9,14].
Brn3c : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
Brn3c : These data suggest that fiber organization in the outer hair cell region is partly disrupted in Brn3c null mutant.
Brn3c : Brn3c null mutants at P7/8  Reduction of vestibular innervation is more pronounced than at P0.
Brn3c : In particular the horizontal canal receives a rather dense afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
Brn3c : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
Brn3c : The limited qualitative effect of Brn3c null mutations on fiber loss is particularly obvious in the P8 Brn3c null mutant apical turn (Fig. 3g).
Brn3c : The limited qualitative effect of Brn3c null mutations on fiber loss is particularly obvious in the P8 Brn3c null mutant apical turn (Fig. 3g).
Brn3c : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
Brn3c : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
Brn3c : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
Brn3c :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
Brn3c : This graph shows the reduction in sensory neurons (top) and in hair cells (bottom) between 7-day old wildtype and Brn3c null mutant littermates.
Brn3c : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
Brn3c :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
Brn3c : The innervation of sensory epithelia is shown in 6-month old Brn3c null mutant mice.
Brn3c : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
Brn3c : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
Brn3c : In contrast, only a faint signal was detected in the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8a) and the few silver grains were located predominantly over the area of the immature hair cells.
Brn3c : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
Brn3c : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
Brn3c : The NT-3 expression is much more diffuse in both control and Brn3c mutant littermates.
Brn3c : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Brn3c : A strong BDNF signal was found over the hair cells of control animals and an occasional immature hair cell also showed a BDNF signal in the Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
Brn3c : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
Brn3c : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
Brn3c : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
Brn3c : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Brn3c : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Brn3c : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
Brn3c : In contrast, Brn3c is barely expressed during embryogenesis in the CNS [22] thus arguing that the survival of ear primary neurons depends crucially on the periphery.
Brn3c :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
Brn3c : Despite this reduction, some, apparently biologically significant low levels of neurotrophins are apparently expressed in all sensory epithelia in embryonic Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c : The comparatively high level of NT-3 expression in Brn3c null mutant cochlea, which has been shown to be the neurotrophin most prominently supporting spiral sensory neurons [6,9,14], is in agreement with the normal development of cochlear innervation in newborn Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c : The comparatively high level of NT-3 expression in Brn3c null mutant cochlea, which has been shown to be the neurotrophin most prominently supporting spiral sensory neurons [6,9,14], is in agreement with the normal development of cochlear innervation in newborn Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
Brn3c : However, the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month, shows no formation of mature hair cells at any time surveyed here (P0, P8, P10).
Brn3c : It therefore remains unclear what supports the many afferents in the apex of the Brn3c null mutants until 6 months of age or longer, unknown peripheral neurotrophic substances or neurotrophic support provided by the CNS.
Brn3c : Interestingly, the growth to outer hair cells is most affected in Brn3c null mutant cochleae.
Brn3c : Probing for the proper expression of supporting cell specific markers in Brn3c null mutants is necessary to further evaluate these suggestions.
Brn3c : Those mutants have a much more severely reduced density of innervation in the developing cochlea [6,14] than the reduction we found in Brn3c null mutants at P0.
Brn3c : [34] have demonstrated that mutation in a single human allele of Pou4f3 (Brn3c) results in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss.
Brn3c : In fact, an investigation of Brn3c heterozygotic mice showed no additional effect on hearing loss due to haploinsufficiency in these mice [35].
Brn3c : Our data on Brn3c null mouse mutants nevertheless suggest that the high to low frequency progressive hearing loss in humans may correlate with the unknown factor(s) that mediate apical spiral neuron survival into adulthood.
Brn3c : The progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants shows neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to losses reported in simple BDNF or NT-3 null mutations [6].
Brn3c : Breeding and genotyping  Brn3c mice were bred as previously described [22].
Brn3c : Mice were genotyped and Brn3c null mutants were raised to a specific age (P0, N = 8; P7, N = 6; P8, N = 6; 6 months old, N = 2).
Brn3c : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
Brn3c : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_2
Brn3c null mutant mice : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Brn3c null mutant mice : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Brn3c null mutants : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
these mutants : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
Brn3c null mice : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
Brn3c null mutants : Close examination has revealed that some 'immature' hair cells form in Brn3c null mutants and express cellular markers such as Myosin VI and VIIa, calretinin and parvalbumin [3].
Brn3c null mutants : Furthermore, these immature hair cells of Brn3c null mutants undergo apoptosis in neonates [3].
Brn3c null mutants : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
Brn3c null mutants : Such selective loss in Brn3c null mutants would therefore indicate reduction of a specific neurotrophin in immature hair cells.
Brn3c null mutants : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
Brn3c null mutant mice : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
Brn3c null mice : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
Brn3c null mutants : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Brn3c null mutants : In newborn animals, the vestibular ganglion shows a dramatic reduction in Brn3c null mutants (b) compared to control littermates (a).
the Brn3c null mutants : However, the Brn3c null mutants show only a reduced density of afferent and efferent fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia.
Brn3c null mice : No loss in specific areas, comparable to that in BDNF null mutant mice, is apparent in the saccule or utricle of Brn3c null mice.
Brn3c null mutants : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
Brn3c null mutants : No selective loss of spiral neurons is observed in Brn3c null mutants in the basal turn, a feature of either NT-3 or trkC loss [6,9,14].
Brn3c null mutants : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
Brn3c null mutant : These data suggest that fiber organization in the outer hair cell region is partly disrupted in Brn3c null mutant.
Brn3c null mutants : In particular the horizontal canal receives a rather dense afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c null mutants : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
Brn3c null mutants : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
mutants : In contrast, no such capillary is present underneath the organ of Corti in mutants (f-h) and no tunnel of Corti is found either.
mutants :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
Brn3c mutant mice : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
the Brn3c null mutant : In contrast, only a faint signal was detected in the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8a) and the few silver grains were located predominantly over the area of the immature hair cells.
the Brn3c null mutants : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
the Brn3c null mice : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
the Brn3c null mutant : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
the Brn3c null mutants : A strong BDNF signal was found over the hair cells of control animals and an occasional immature hair cell also showed a BDNF signal in the Brn3c null mutants.
the Brn3c null mutant : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
Brn3c null mice : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Brn3c null mice : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
Brn3c null mutants : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
Brn3c null mutants : However, the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month, shows no formation of mature hair cells at any time surveyed here (P0, P8, P10).
Brn3c null mutants : Probing for the proper expression of supporting cell specific markers in Brn3c null mutants is necessary to further evaluate these suggestions.
Brn3c null mouse mutants : Our data on Brn3c null mouse mutants nevertheless suggest that the high to low frequency progressive hearing loss in humans may correlate with the unknown factor(s) that mediate apical spiral neuron survival into adulthood.
Brn3c null mutants : The progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants shows neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to losses reported in simple BDNF or NT-3 null mutations [6].
these mutants : Other factors, such as GDNF [11,40] need to be investigated in their expression in these mutants and their functional role needs to be assessed, in particular in the cochlear apex.
Brn3c null mutants : Mice were genotyped and Brn3c null mutants were raised to a specific age (P0, N = 8; P7, N = 6; P8, N = 6; 6 months old, N = 2).
Brn3c null mutants : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_4
inner ear : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
inner ear : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
inner ear :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
inner ear : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
node_7
Background : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Background : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Background :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
node_9
Ears of Brn3c null mutants : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Ears of Brn3c null mutants : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
Brn3c null : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
node_13
immature hair cells : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
immature hair cells : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
immature hair cells : Around 20% of immature hair cells exist in the mutant vestibular sensory epithelia.
immature hair cells : Such selective loss in Brn3c null mutants would therefore indicate reduction of a specific neurotrophin in immature hair cells.
immature hair cells : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
the immature hair cells : Thus, the size reduction in the vestibular sensory ganglion could be compatible with a loss of BDNF production in the immature hair cells.
immature hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
immature hair cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
the immature cells : Note that tubulin-positive fibers can be traced to the immature cells until 6 months (h).
the cochlear immature hair cells : Note the sharp reduction to 1% in the cochlear immature hair cells (bottom) whereas spiral sensory neurons (SG) are only reduced by 50% (top).
the immature hair cells of the cochlea : These data suggest that a crude cochleotopic projection can form independently of any signaling from the immature hair cells of the cochlea.
immature hair cells : However, these cells could not be clearly identified as immature hair cells based on their morphology.
immature hair cells : Transcellular labeling with DiI (b) suggest contacts between these afferents and immature hair cells.
the immature hair cells : In contrast, only a faint signal was detected in the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8a) and the few silver grains were located predominantly over the area of the immature hair cells.
immature hair cells : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
IHC's : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Immature hair cells :  Immature hair cells and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until P8  The neurotrophins have long been implicated as the mediators for target mediated cell death.
immature hair cells :  Formation of radial fibers that bring peripheral processes of spiral neurons to the organ of Corti seems to be rather normal, even in the apex of the cochlea which does not even develop immature hair cells recognizable by Myo VIIa.
node_16
apoptosis in neonates : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
apoptosis in neonates : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
apoptosis in neonates : Furthermore, these immature hair cells of Brn3c null mutants undergo apoptosis in neonates [3].
node_18
neonates : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
neonates : Brn3c null mutant mice show long-term, incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation  Abstract  Background  Ears of Brn3c null mutants develop immature hair cells, identifiable only by certain molecular markers, and undergo apoptosis in neonates.
neonates : Furthermore, these immature hair cells of Brn3c null mutants undergo apoptosis in neonates [3].
neonates : We did not analyze neurotrophin expression in 6-month old animals as neurotrophins are downregulated in neonates [20] and no expression can be found even in normal animals [4].
neonates : In fact, in the cochlea of embryos and neonates as well as in the saccule and utricle of embryos, NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells [6].
neonates : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
node_20
hair cells : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
hair cells : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
hair cells : Despite more severe loss of hair cells (1% compared to 20%), the cochlea retains many more sensory neurons (46% compared to 15%) than vestibular epithelia.
hair cells :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
hair cells : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
these cells : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
hair cells : Moreover, recent work shows that in embryos NT-3 is primarily expressed in supporting cells, moving only around birth into hair cells [6,7].
hair cells : We want to evaluate a possible correlation between the topology of sensory neuron loss and absence of a specific neurotrophin or topological loss of hair cells at birth and in older animals.
hair cell : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
hair cells : In contrast, more immature hair cells are found in the appropriate position of hair cells in the vestibular endorgans (Table 1).
hair cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
hair cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
hair cells : Sections show the degree of differentiation of hair cells and their innervating fibers stained with tubulin immunocytochemistry (arrow; e-h).
their : Sections show the degree of differentiation of hair cells and their innervating fibers stained with tubulin immunocytochemistry (arrow; e-h).
hair cells : This graph shows the reduction in sensory neurons (top) and in hair cells (bottom) between 7-day old wildtype and Brn3c null mutant littermates.
hair cells : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
hair cells : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
hair cell : Relevance of our findings to other mutations with hair cell loss  Vahava et al. [12] and Frydman et al.
hair cells : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
hair cells :  The long term retention of afferents in the cochlear apex in the absence of any apparent differentiation of hair cells raises hopes for cochlear implants in deaf-born children.
hair cell : Similar long term retention of apical afferents exists in the deaf white cat [25] and should be explored in other model systems with embryonic and neonatal hair cell loss [37,38].  Methods
hair cells : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
hair cells : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
hair cell : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
hair cells : Images of labeled organs of Corti were then acquired using a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments Inc.) and the number of hair cells was scored from acquired images.
node_22
neurotrophin : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
neurotrophin : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
neurotrophin : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
neurotrophins : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
neurotrophin : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
neurotrophin : Data on various single and compound neurotrophin null mutants have shown that the loss of a specific neurotrophin leads to topologically restricted loss of sensory neurons in the embryonic ear [4,5].
neurotrophins : In the ear [4] as well as elsewhere [10] neurotrophins are progressively downregulated in postnatal mammals and possibly replaced by other factors [11].  
neurotrophin : We want to evaluate a possible correlation between the topology of sensory neuron loss and absence of a specific neurotrophin or topological loss of hair cells at birth and in older animals.
neurotrophins : This retention of apical spiral neurons is also largely unrelated to neurotrophins which are known to be reduced in their expression in neonatal rodents [4].  Results  
neurotrophin : In addition, the pattern of efferent innervation shows no deviation from normal either (Fig. 2e), whereas they show the same pattern of loss as afferent fibers in neurotrophin null mutants [16].
neurotrophin : However, there is one qualitative difference not recognized in any single neurotrophin null mutant.
neurotrophin : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
neurotrophin : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
neurotrophin : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
neurotrophin : We did not analyze neurotrophin expression in 6-month old animals as neurotrophins are downregulated in neonates [20] and no expression can be found even in normal animals [4].
neurotrophins : We did not analyze neurotrophin expression in 6-month old animals as neurotrophins are downregulated in neonates [20] and no expression can be found even in normal animals [4].
neurotrophins : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
neurotrophins :  Immature hair cells and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until P8  The neurotrophins have long been implicated as the mediators for target mediated cell death.
The neurotrophins :  Immature hair cells and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until P8  The neurotrophins have long been implicated as the mediators for target mediated cell death.
neurotrophins : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
neurotrophins : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
neurotrophins :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
neurotrophins : Despite this reduction, some, apparently biologically significant low levels of neurotrophins are apparently expressed in all sensory epithelia in embryonic Brn3c null mutants.
neurotrophins : It appears that even these low levels of neurotrophins in the vestibular sensory epithelia can sustain normal fiber outgrowth and a limited maintenance until P0.
neurotrophins : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
neurotrophin : However, known neurotrophins are largely absent in the adult cochleae [4] and significant amounts of neurotrophin expression appear to develop only in postnatal animals in the CNS [24].
neutrophins : Such expression in the CNS could possibly offset to some extent the peripheral loss of neutrophins in targeted null mutants.
neurotrophin : This late sensory neuron loss is likely not related to known neurotrophin signaling which becomes reduced in neonatal wildtype animals.
neurotrophins : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_24
sensory neurons : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
sensory neurons : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
sensory neurons : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
sensory neuron : We want to evaluate a possible correlation between the topology of sensory neuron loss and absence of a specific neurotrophin or topological loss of hair cells at birth and in older animals.
sensory neurons : This graph shows the reduction in sensory neurons (top) and in hair cells (bottom) between 7-day old wildtype and Brn3c null mutant littermates.
sensory neurons in the ear : For example, in BDNF heterozygotic animals there is a small decrease in the number of sensory neurons in the ear [13] but no change in the overall pattern of innervation.
sensory neurons : Null mutants of ear specific neurotrophins have completed the loss of sensory neurons before birth.
sensory neuron : This late sensory neuron loss is likely not related to known neurotrophin signaling which becomes reduced in neonatal wildtype animals.
node_26
embryonic development : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
embryonic development : This partial development of hair cells could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development.
embryonic development : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
node_28
We : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
We : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
We : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
We : We want to evaluate a possible correlation between the topology of sensory neuron loss and absence of a specific neurotrophin or topological loss of hair cells at birth and in older animals.
We : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
we : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
Our : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
our :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
we : And yet only about 50% of cochlear sensory neurons are lost overall with a less severe loss in the apex in which we could not detect any immature hair cells with MyoVIIa immunocytochemistry.
We : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
We : We did not analyze neurotrophin expression in 6-month old animals as neurotrophins are downregulated in neonates [20] and no expression can be found even in normal animals [4].
we : In the canal cristae we expected, and found, only a BDNF signal.
we : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
We : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
We :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
our : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
Our : Our data agree with this scenario but extend it.
Our : Our data show that at least a cochleotopic projection in the cochlear nerve and the cochlear nuclei develops even in Brn 3c null mutants (Fig. 6).
we : Those mutants have a much more severely reduced density of innervation in the developing cochlea [6,14] than the reduction we found in Brn3c null mutants at P0.
our : Relevance of our findings to other mutations with hair cell loss  Vahava et al. [12] and Frydman et al.
Our : Our data on Brn3c null mouse mutants nevertheless suggest that the high to low frequency progressive hearing loss in humans may correlate with the unknown factor(s) that mediate apical spiral neuron survival into adulthood.
our : In contrast, our results suggest a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between P0 and at least 6 months.
node_31
innervation : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
innervation : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
innervation : At postnatal day 7/8 (P7/8), innervation is severely reduced both qualitatively and quantitatively.
innervation : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
innervation : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
innervation : The cochlea at P8 shows more qualitative deviations from the normal pattern of innervation.
innervation :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
innervation : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
innervation : For example, in BDNF heterozygotic animals there is a small decrease in the number of sensory neurons in the ear [13] but no change in the overall pattern of innervation.
innervation : Those mutants have a much more severely reduced density of innervation in the developing cochlea [6,14] than the reduction we found in Brn3c null mutants at P0.
innervation : Ears were subsequently reacted for acetylated tubulin to reveal the pattern of innervation in addition to the DiI tracing with a different technique as previously described [14].
node_33
expression of known neurotrophins : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
expression of known neurotrophins : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
neurotrophin expression : However, known neurotrophins are largely absent in the adult cochleae [4] and significant amounts of neurotrophin expression appear to develop only in postnatal animals in the CNS [24].
node_35
known neurotrophins : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
known neurotrophins : We have therefore investigated in these mutants the patterns of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins.
known neurotrophins : However, known neurotrophins are largely absent in the adult cochleae [4] and significant amounts of neurotrophin expression appear to develop only in postnatal animals in the CNS [24].
node_37
Results : Results  
Results : Results  
Results : This retention of apical spiral neurons is also largely unrelated to neurotrophins which are known to be reduced in their expression in neonatal rodents [4].  Results  
node_39
birth : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
birth : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
birth : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
birth : Moreover, recent work shows that in embryos NT-3 is primarily expressed in supporting cells, moving only around birth into hair cells [6,7].
birth : We want to evaluate a possible correlation between the topology of sensory neuron loss and absence of a specific neurotrophin or topological loss of hair cells at birth and in older animals.
birth : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
birth : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
P0 : These data suggest that the spiral sensory neurons develop qualitatively normal at least until P0 and therefore allow normal pathfinding of efferents.
P0 : Brn3c null mutants at P7/8  Reduction of vestibular innervation is more pronounced than at P0.
P0 : In contrast, the innervation to the canal cristae, while reduced, has changed little from P0.
birth : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
P0 : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
P0 : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
P0 : It appears that even these low levels of neurotrophins in the vestibular sensory epithelia can sustain normal fiber outgrowth and a limited maintenance until P0.
birth : Past research has shown that in BDNF and trkB null mutants this innervation to canal cristae is lost before birth [6,13].
birth : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
birth : Past work has shown that BDNF and NT-3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cells around birth or are lost in the ear and other parts of the nervous system [6,10,20,23].
P0 : However, the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month, shows no formation of mature hair cells at any time surveyed here (P0, P8, P10).
birth : This would work only in cases in which the loss of primary neurons would not already be completed long before birth as is the case in the ear [6,13].  
birth : This does not preclude that even less differentiated hair cell precursors may form in the apex or that those precursors have died before birth.
P0 : Those mutants have a much more severely reduced density of innervation in the developing cochlea [6,14] than the reduction we found in Brn3c null mutants at P0.
birth : Null mutants of ear specific neurotrophins have completed the loss of sensory neurons before birth.
P0 : In contrast, our results suggest a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between P0 and at least 6 months.
P0 : Mice were genotyped and Brn3c null mutants were raised to a specific age (P0, N = 8; P7, N = 6; P8, N = 6; 6 months old, N = 2).
P0 : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_42
BDNF : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
BDNF : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
BDNF : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
BDNF : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
BDNF : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
BDNF : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
its : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
BDNF : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
BDNF : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
BDNF : Thus, the size reduction in the vestibular sensory ganglion could be compatible with a loss of BDNF production in the immature hair cells.
BDNF : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
BDNF : No loss in specific areas, comparable to that in BDNF null mutant mice, is apparent in the saccule or utricle of Brn3c null mice.
BDNF : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
BDNF : Most interestingly, there is no increase in radial fiber spacing in the apex, a specific problem of BDNF null mutants [6,13].  
BDNF : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
BDNF : In the canal cristae we expected, and found, only a BDNF signal.
BDNF : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
BDNF : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
BDNF : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
BDNF : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
BDNF : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
BDNF : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
BDNF : A strong BDNF signal was found over the hair cells of control animals and an occasional immature hair cell also showed a BDNF signal in the Brn3c null mutants.
BDNF : A strong BDNF signal was found over the hair cells of control animals and an occasional immature hair cell also showed a BDNF signal in the Brn3c null mutants.
BDNF : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
BDNF : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
BDNF : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
BDNF : For example, in BDNF heterozygotic animals there is a small decrease in the number of sensory neurons in the ear [13] but no change in the overall pattern of innervation.
BDNF : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
BDNF : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
BDNF : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
BDNF : Past research has shown that in BDNF and trkB null mutants this innervation to canal cristae is lost before birth [6,13].
BDNF : The situation in the utricle, saccule and cochlea is less clear as both BDNF and NT-3 are expressed [6,7].
BDNF : Past work has shown that BDNF and NT-3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cells around birth or are lost in the ear and other parts of the nervous system [6,10,20,23].
BDNF : In this context, it would be interesting to see whether the recently generated transgenic mouse in which BDNF is expressed under NT-3 promoter control [33] could actually perform an even more pronounced rescue in a Brn3c null mutant background.
BDNF : The progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants shows neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to losses reported in simple BDNF or NT-3 null mutations [6].
BDNF : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_44
BDNF and NT-3 : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
BDNF and NT-3 : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
NT-3 and BDNF : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
BDNF and NT-3 : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
these neurotrophins : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
BDNF and NT-3 : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
BDNF and NT-3 : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
both BDNF and NT-3 : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
BDNF and NT-3 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
both BDNF and NT-3 : The situation in the utricle, saccule and cochlea is less clear as both BDNF and NT-3 are expressed [6,7].
BDNF and NT-3 : Past work has shown that BDNF and NT-3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cells around birth or are lost in the ear and other parts of the nervous system [6,10,20,23].
their : Past work has shown that BDNF and NT-3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cells around birth or are lost in the ear and other parts of the nervous system [6,10,20,23].
BDNF and NT-3 : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_46
NT-3 : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
NT-3 : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
NT-3 : Moreover, recent work shows that in embryos NT-3 is primarily expressed in supporting cells, moving only around birth into hair cells [6,7].
NT-3 : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
NT-3 : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
NT-3 : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
NT-3 : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
its : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
NT-3 : No selective loss of spiral neurons is observed in Brn3c null mutants in the basal turn, a feature of either NT-3 or trkC loss [6,9,14].
NT-3 : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
NT-3 : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
NT-3 : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
NT-3 : The NT-3 expression is much more diffuse in both control and Brn3c mutant littermates.
NT-3 : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
NT-3 : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
NT-3 : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
NT-3 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
NT-3 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
NT-3 : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
NT-3 : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
NT-3 : The comparatively high level of NT-3 expression in Brn3c null mutant cochlea, which has been shown to be the neurotrophin most prominently supporting spiral sensory neurons [6,9,14], is in agreement with the normal development of cochlear innervation in newborn Brn3c null mutants.
NT-3 : The situation in the utricle, saccule and cochlea is less clear as both BDNF and NT-3 are expressed [6,7].
NT-3 : In fact, it appears that the levels of NT-3 expression hardly differ from those in control littermates (Figs. 8, 9).
NT-3 : In fact, in the cochlea of embryos and neonates as well as in the saccule and utricle of embryos, NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells [6].
NT-3 : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
NT-3 : Past work has shown that BDNF and NT-3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cells around birth or are lost in the ear and other parts of the nervous system [6,10,20,23].
NT-3 : Those data are also consistent with the formation of a crude cochleotopic projection in NT-3 null mutants [6,14].
NT-3 : In this context, it would be interesting to see whether the recently generated transgenic mouse in which BDNF is expressed under NT-3 promoter control [33] could actually perform an even more pronounced rescue in a Brn3c null mutant background.
NT-3 : The progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants shows neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to losses reported in simple BDNF or NT-3 null mutations [6].
NT-3 : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_48
the mutant sensory epithelia : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
the mutant sensory epithelia : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
the mutant vestibular sensory epithelia : Around 20% of immature hair cells exist in the mutant vestibular sensory epithelia.
node_50
DiI : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
DiI : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
DiI : Figure 1  Size variations of vestibular ganglia in control and mutant littermates labeled with DiI.
DiI : There is no specific loss of fibers to any vestibular endorgan, as visualized by DiI labeling (a) or acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (b).
DiI : The pattern obtained with DiI tracing is identical to that obtained by acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (f,g).
DiI : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
DiI : DiI (red) was inserted into the basal turn, DiA (green) was inserted into the apical turn.
DiI : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
DiI : Transcellular labeling with DiI (b) suggest contacts between these afferents and immature hair cells.
DiI : Tracing of nerve fibers  DiI tracing from the brainstem was performed as previously described [41].
the dye : After appropriate diffusion time of the dye, the ears were dissected and mounted flat for visualization in an epifluorescent microscope.
DiI : Ears were subsequently reacted for acetylated tubulin to reveal the pattern of innervation in addition to the DiI tracing with a different technique as previously described [14].
DiI : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_52
afferents : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
afferents : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
afferents : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
Afferents : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
afferents : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
afferents : No afferents can be traced to the three outer spiral bundles along outer hair cells of mutant littermates (c, e).
afferents : However, as in the base, afferents and efferents extend sparingly to the outer hair cell region.
afferents : As in newborn animals, efferent fibers closely follow the pattern of innervation displayed by afferents (data not shown).  
afferent :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
afferents : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
afferents : Instead of extending radially through the tunnel of Corti to outer hair cells, afferents appear to stall and extend in longitudinal directions as inner spiral bundles (Figs. 3, 7).
afferents : Previous work has suggested that efferent fibers, derived from facial branchial motoneurons, follow afferents and for that reason reflect in detail all connectional deviations of afferents [16,30-32].
afferents : Previous work has suggested that efferent fibers, derived from facial branchial motoneurons, follow afferents and for that reason reflect in detail all connectional deviations of afferents [16,30-32].
afferents : Specifically, efferent fibers may suffer the same loss of their molecularly unknown neurotrophic support as do afferents and therefore show the same spatio-temporal profile of loss (Fig. 3).
node_54
efferents : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
efferents : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
efferents : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
efferents : These data suggest that the spiral sensory neurons develop qualitatively normal at least until P0 and therefore allow normal pathfinding of efferents.
efferents : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
efferents : However, as in the base, afferents and efferents extend sparingly to the outer hair cell region.
efferent :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
efferents : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
node_57
neurotrophin null mutations : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
neurotrophin null mutations : At birth there is a limited expression of BDNF and NT-3 in the mutant sensory epithelia and DiI tracing shows no specific reduction of afferents or efferents that resembles neurotrophin null mutations.
neurotrophin : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
node_59
postnatal day 7/8 : At postnatal day 7/8 (P7/8), innervation is severely reduced both qualitatively and quantitatively.
postnatal day 7/8 : At postnatal day 7/8 (P7/8), innervation is severely reduced both qualitatively and quantitatively.
P7/8 : Brn3c null mutants at P7/8  Reduction of vestibular innervation is more pronounced than at P0.
node_60
postnatal day 7/8 : At postnatal day 7/8 (P7/8), innervation is severely reduced both qualitatively and quantitatively.
postnatal day 7/8 : At postnatal day 7/8 (P7/8), innervation is severely reduced both qualitatively and quantitatively.
P7/8 : At postnatal day 7/8 (P7/8), innervation is severely reduced both qualitatively and quantitatively.
node_64
1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells : 1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells are present in the mutant cochlea, concentrated in the base.
1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells : 1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells are present in the mutant cochlea, concentrated in the base.
1% : Despite more severe loss of hair cells (1% compared to 20%), the cochlea retains many more sensory neurons (46% compared to 15%) than vestibular epithelia.
1% : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
1% : Note the sharp reduction to 1% in the cochlear immature hair cells (bottom) whereas spiral sensory neurons (SG) are only reduced by 50% (top).
node_67
the mutant cochlea : 1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells are present in the mutant cochlea, concentrated in the base.
the mutant cochlea : 1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells are present in the mutant cochlea, concentrated in the base.
the cochlea of Brn3c null mice : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
Brn3c mutant cochleae : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
Brn3c null mutant cochlea : The comparatively high level of NT-3 expression in Brn3c null mutant cochlea, which has been shown to be the neurotrophin most prominently supporting spiral sensory neurons [6,9,14], is in agreement with the normal development of cochlear innervation in newborn Brn3c null mutants.
Brn3c null mutant cochleae : Interestingly, the growth to outer hair cells is most affected in Brn3c null mutant cochleae.
node_69
the base : 1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells are present in the mutant cochlea, concentrated in the base.
the base : 1% of myosin VIIa-positive immature hair cells are present in the mutant cochlea, concentrated in the base.
the base : However, as in the base, afferents and efferents extend sparingly to the outer hair cell region.
the base : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
the base : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_71
Around 20% of immature hair cells : Around 20% of immature hair cells exist in the mutant vestibular sensory epithelia.
Around 20% of immature hair cells : Around 20% of immature hair cells exist in the mutant vestibular sensory epithelia.
20% : Despite more severe loss of hair cells (1% compared to 20%), the cochlea retains many more sensory neurons (46% compared to 15%) than vestibular epithelia.
node_78
the cochlea : Despite more severe loss of hair cells (1% compared to 20%), the cochlea retains many more sensory neurons (46% compared to 15%) than vestibular epithelia.
the cochlea : Despite more severe loss of hair cells (1% compared to 20%), the cochlea retains many more sensory neurons (46% compared to 15%) than vestibular epithelia.
cochlea : Topologically organized central cochlea projections exist at least until P8, suggesting that functional hair cells are not required to establish such projections.
the cochlea : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
the cochlea : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
the cochlea : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
the cochlea : In the cochlea there is an increased spacing between radial fiber bundles in the basal turn (c,e).
the cochlea : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
the cochlea : Not a single immature hair cell forms in the apex of the cochlea.
The cochlea : The cochlea shows other defects as well.
the cochlea : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
the cochlea : Only a few undifferentiated hair cells were detected by MyoVIIa immunostaining and only in the basal region of the cochlea.
the cochlea : These data suggest that a crude cochleotopic projection can form independently of any signaling from the immature hair cells of the cochlea.
The cochlea : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
The cochlea :  The cochlea, most prominently the apex, receives many afferent fibers, which form an interrupted inner spiral bundle (Fig. 7c).
the cochlea :  In summary, these tracing data suggest that mature hair cells are not necessary to direct fiber outgrowth and to maintain some fibers at least up to 6 months in the apex of the cochlea.
the cochlea : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
the cochlea : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
cochlea : The situation in the utricle, saccule and cochlea is less clear as both BDNF and NT-3 are expressed [6,7].
the cochlea : The latter is particularly obvious in the apex of the cochlea.
the cochlea :  Growth of fibers to the cochlea does not require mature hair cells
the cochlea :  Formation of radial fibers that bring peripheral processes of spiral neurons to the organ of Corti seems to be rather normal, even in the apex of the cochlea which does not even develop immature hair cells recognizable by Myo VIIa.
the cochlea : Thus far no data are available that correlate the late onset of hearing loss with morphological defects in the cochlea.
node_80
vestibular epithelia : Despite more severe loss of hair cells (1% compared to 20%), the cochlea retains many more sensory neurons (46% compared to 15%) than vestibular epithelia.
vestibular epithelia : Despite more severe loss of hair cells (1% compared to 20%), the cochlea retains many more sensory neurons (46% compared to 15%) than vestibular epithelia.
vestibular sensory epithelia : In contrast, 20% immature hair cells could be identified in vestibular sensory epithelia (saccule has been selected; bottom) whereas only around 15% of the vestibular sensory neurons survive to this age (VG; top).
the vestibular epithelia :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
these epithelia : Only very few fibers extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferents to these epithelia being almost complete (Fig. 7a and data not shown).
sensory epithelia : The innervation of sensory epithelia is shown in 6-month old Brn3c null mutant mice.
vestibular sensory epithelia : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
the sensory epithelium : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
the vestibular sensory epithelia : It appears that even these low levels of neurotrophins in the vestibular sensory epithelia can sustain normal fiber outgrowth and a limited maintenance until P0.
the sensory epithelia : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_82
6 months old mutant mice : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
6 months old mutant mice : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
6 months Brn3c null mutants :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
6-month old Brn3c null mutant mice : The innervation of sensory epithelia is shown in 6-month old Brn3c null mutant mice.
node_85
all vestibular sensory epithelia : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
all vestibular sensory epithelia : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
all vestibular sensory epithelia : However, the Brn3c null mutants show only a reduced density of afferent and efferent fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia.
all vestibular sensory epithelia : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
all sensory epithelia : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
node_87
the cochlear apex : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
the cochlear apex : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
this part of the cochlea : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
the apex : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
the apex : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
the apex : Most interestingly, there is no increase in radial fiber spacing in the apex, a specific problem of BDNF null mutants [6,13].  
The apex : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
The apex : The apex shows less pronounced deviations from normal (Fig. 3f,3g).
the apex of the cochlea : Not a single immature hair cell forms in the apex of the cochlea.
the apex : No MyoVII positive immature hair cells exist in the apex.
the apex : And yet only about 50% of cochlear sensory neurons are lost overall with a less severe loss in the apex in which we could not detect any immature hair cells with MyoVIIa immunocytochemistry.
the apex : This does not exclude the possibility that even less differentiated hair cells may form in the apex.
the apex : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
the apex :  The cochlea, most prominently the apex, receives many afferent fibers, which form an interrupted inner spiral bundle (Fig. 7c).
the apex : Even at this late stage in maturation there are still numerous spiral neurons present in the apex (Fig. 7c,7d).
the apex of the cochlea :  In summary, these tracing data suggest that mature hair cells are not necessary to direct fiber outgrowth and to maintain some fibers at least up to 6 months in the apex of the cochlea.
the apex : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
the apex of the cochlea : The latter is particularly obvious in the apex of the cochlea.
the apex of the cochlea :  Formation of radial fibers that bring peripheral processes of spiral neurons to the organ of Corti seems to be rather normal, even in the apex of the cochlea which does not even develop immature hair cells recognizable by Myo VIIa.
the apex : This does not preclude that even less differentiated hair cell precursors may form in the apex or that those precursors have died before birth.
apex : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
the cochlear apex : Other factors, such as GDNF [11,40] need to be investigated in their expression in these mutants and their functional role needs to be assessed, in particular in the cochlear apex.
the cochlear apex :  The long term retention of afferents in the cochlear apex in the absence of any apparent differentiation of hair cells raises hopes for cochlear implants in deaf-born children.
node_89
MyoVIIa : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
MyoVIIa : Even 6 months old mutant mice have some fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia and many more to the cochlear apex which lacks MyoVIIa positive hair cells.
Myosin : Close examination has revealed that some 'immature' hair cells form in Brn3c null mutants and express cellular markers such as Myosin VI and VIIa, calretinin and parvalbumin [3].
MyoVIIa : Only a few undifferentiated hair cells were detected by MyoVIIa immunostaining and only in the basal region of the cochlea.
MyoVIIa : And yet only about 50% of cochlear sensory neurons are lost overall with a less severe loss in the apex in which we could not detect any immature hair cells with MyoVIIa immunocytochemistry.
Myo VIIa :  Formation of radial fibers that bring peripheral processes of spiral neurons to the organ of Corti seems to be rather normal, even in the apex of the cochlea which does not even develop immature hair cells recognizable by Myo VIIa.
MyoVIIa : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
node_91
Topologically organized central cochlea projections : Topologically organized central cochlea projections exist at least until P8, suggesting that functional hair cells are not required to establish such projections.
Topologically organized central cochlea projections : Topologically organized central cochlea projections exist at least until P8, suggesting that functional hair cells are not required to establish such projections.
such projections : Topologically organized central cochlea projections exist at least until P8, suggesting that functional hair cells are not required to establish such projections.
node_95
P8 : Topologically organized central cochlea projections exist at least until P8, suggesting that functional hair cells are not required to establish such projections.
P8 : Topologically organized central cochlea projections exist at least until P8, suggesting that functional hair cells are not required to establish such projections.
P8 : The cochlea at P8 shows more qualitative deviations from the normal pattern of innervation.
P8 : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
P8 : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
P8 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
P8 : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
P8 : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
P8 :  Immature hair cells and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until P8  The neurotrophins have long been implicated as the mediators for target mediated cell death.
P8 : However, the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month, shows no formation of mature hair cells at any time surveyed here (P0, P8, P10).
P8 : Mice were genotyped and Brn3c null mutants were raised to a specific age (P0, N = 8; P7, N = 6; P8, N = 6; 6 months old, N = 2).
P8 : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_99
Conclusion : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
Conclusion : Conclusion  The limited expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of Brn3c null mice suffices to support many sensory neurons, particularly in the cochlea, until birth.
Conclusion : Conclusion  
node_107
apical spiral neurons : The molecular nature of the long term survival of apical spiral neurons remains unclear.
apical spiral neurons : The molecular nature of the long term survival of apical spiral neurons remains unclear.
apical spiral neurons : This retention of apical spiral neurons is also largely unrelated to neurotrophins which are known to be reduced in their expression in neonatal rodents [4].  Results  
apical turn spiral neurons : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
node_109
ear :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
ear :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
ear :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
ear :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
the ear : In the ear [4] as well as elsewhere [10] neurotrophins are progressively downregulated in postnatal mammals and possibly replaced by other factors [11].  
the ear : Efferent fibers to the ear show a well developed intraganglionic spiral bundle (IGSB) with no detectable differences compared to controls (e).
the ear : Reduction of innervation of the ear is shown in 8-day old mice.
the ear : For example, in BDNF heterozygotic animals there is a small decrease in the number of sensory neurons in the ear [13] but no change in the overall pattern of innervation.
ear : In contrast, Brn3c is barely expressed during embryogenesis in the CNS [22] thus arguing that the survival of ear primary neurons depends crucially on the periphery.
the ear : Past work has shown that BDNF and NT-3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cells around birth or are lost in the ear and other parts of the nervous system [6,10,20,23].
the ear : It has been suggested that other neurotrophins may come into play in the ear [11].
the ear : This would work only in cases in which the loss of primary neurons would not already be completed long before birth as is the case in the ear [6,13].  
the ear : More information on the actual molecular support of efferent fibers in the ear is needed before those two possibilities can be distinguished.
ear : Null mutants of ear specific neurotrophins have completed the loss of sensory neurons before birth.
Ears : Ears were postfixed in the same fixative for at least one day prior to dissection.
Ears : Ears were subsequently reacted for acetylated tubulin to reveal the pattern of innervation in addition to the DiI tracing with a different technique as previously described [14].
node_111
POU factors :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
POU factors :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
POU :  Keywords: ear development, POU factors and hair cells, afferent ear innervation, efferent ear innervation  Background  Brn3c is a POU domain factor that is crucial for inner ear hair cell development.
node_122
Targeted null Brn3c mutants : Targeted null Brn3c mutants have no mature hair cells [1,2].
Targeted null Brn3c mutants : Targeted null Brn3c mutants have no mature hair cells [1,2].
targeted null mutants : Such expression in the CNS could possibly offset to some extent the peripheral loss of neutrophins in targeted null mutants.
node_125
mature hair cells : Targeted null Brn3c mutants have no mature hair cells [1,2].
mature hair cells : Targeted null Brn3c mutants have no mature hair cells [1,2].
mature hair cells : Consistent with an apparent absence of mature hair cells, initial work suggested that all vestibular and most spiral ganglion cells are lost by postnatal day 14 (P14; [1]).
mature hair cells :  In summary, these tracing data suggest that mature hair cells are not necessary to direct fiber outgrowth and to maintain some fibers at least up to 6 months in the apex of the cochlea.
mature hair cells : However, the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month, shows no formation of mature hair cells at any time surveyed here (P0, P8, P10).
mature hair cells :  Growth of fibers to the cochlea does not require mature hair cells
mature hair cells : It is possible that the apparent inability of fibers to extend along outer hair cells is related to the lack of differentiation of supporting cells in the absence of mature hair cells.
node_127
some 'immature' hair cells form in Brn3c null mutants and express cellular markers such as Myosin VI and VIIa, calretinin and parvalbumin : Close examination has revealed that some 'immature' hair cells form in Brn3c null mutants and express cellular markers such as Myosin VI and VIIa, calretinin and parvalbumin [3].
some 'immature' hair cells form in Brn3c null mutants and express cellular markers such as Myosin VI and VIIa, calretinin and parvalbumin : Close examination has revealed that some 'immature' hair cells form in Brn3c null mutants and express cellular markers such as Myosin VI and VIIa, calretinin and parvalbumin [3].
these immature hair cells of Brn3c null mutants : Furthermore, these immature hair cells of Brn3c null mutants undergo apoptosis in neonates [3].
node_138
postnatal day 14 : Consistent with an apparent absence of mature hair cells, initial work suggested that all vestibular and most spiral ganglion cells are lost by postnatal day 14 (P14; [1]).
postnatal day 14 : Consistent with an apparent absence of mature hair cells, initial work suggested that all vestibular and most spiral ganglion cells are lost by postnatal day 14 (P14; [1]).
P14 : Consistent with an apparent absence of mature hair cells, initial work suggested that all vestibular and most spiral ganglion cells are lost by postnatal day 14 (P14; [1]).
node_141
P4 : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
P4 : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
P4 : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
P4 :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
node_143
77% of vestibular neurons : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
77% of vestibular neurons : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
node_145
vestibular neurons : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
vestibular neurons : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
vestibular : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
vestibular sensory neurons : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
the vestibular sensory neurons : In contrast, 20% immature hair cells could be identified in vestibular sensory epithelia (saccule has been selected; bottom) whereas only around 15% of the vestibular sensory neurons survive to this age (VG; top).
node_147
spiral neurons : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
spiral neurons : However, more detailed quantification by others [3] reported that at P4 about 77% of vestibular neurons and only 29% of spiral neurons are lost.
spiral neurons : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
spiral sensory neurons :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
spiral neurons : No selective loss of spiral neurons is observed in Brn3c null mutants in the basal turn, a feature of either NT-3 or trkC loss [6,9,14].
the spiral sensory neurons : These data suggest that the spiral sensory neurons develop qualitatively normal at least until P0 and therefore allow normal pathfinding of efferents.
spiral sensory neurons : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
spiral sensory neurons : Note the sharp reduction to 1% in the cochlear immature hair cells (bottom) whereas spiral sensory neurons (SG) are only reduced by 50% (top).
spiral sensory neurons : However, spiral sensory neurons are present in Rosenthal's canal (c,d) and fibers extend to the organ of Corti where they form longitudinal tracts in the immature epithelium.
spiral sensory neurons : The comparatively high level of NT-3 expression in Brn3c null mutant cochlea, which has been shown to be the neurotrophin most prominently supporting spiral sensory neurons [6,9,14], is in agreement with the normal development of cochlear innervation in newborn Brn3c null mutants.
spiral neurons :  Formation of radial fibers that bring peripheral processes of spiral neurons to the organ of Corti seems to be rather normal, even in the apex of the cochlea which does not even develop immature hair cells recognizable by Myo VIIa.
node_151
data : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
data : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
data : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
data : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
data : As in newborn animals, efferent fibers closely follow the pattern of innervation displayed by afferents (data not shown).  
the data : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
data : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
data : Only very few fibers extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferents to these epithelia being almost complete (Fig. 7a and data not shown).
data : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
data : Thus far no data are available that correlate the late onset of hearing loss with morphological defects in the cochlea.
data : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_158
Brn3c mutants : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
Brn3c mutants : Other than these preliminary statements, no data exists concerning the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in Brn3c null mutants.  The initial development and partial differentiation of hair cells in Brn3c mutants could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cells to sustain sensory neurons through embryonic development and beyond.
the Brn3c mutants : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
node_164
single : Data on various single and compound neurotrophin null mutants have shown that the loss of a specific neurotrophin leads to topologically restricted loss of sensory neurons in the embryonic ear [4,5].
single : Data on various single and compound neurotrophin null mutants have shown that the loss of a specific neurotrophin leads to topologically restricted loss of sensory neurons in the embryonic ear [4,5].
single neurotrophin null mutant : However, there is one qualitative difference not recognized in any single neurotrophin null mutant.
node_167
topologically restricted loss of sensory neurons in the embryonic ear : Data on various single and compound neurotrophin null mutants have shown that the loss of a specific neurotrophin leads to topologically restricted loss of sensory neurons in the embryonic ear [4,5].
topologically restricted loss of sensory neurons in the embryonic ear : Data on various single and compound neurotrophin null mutants have shown that the loss of a specific neurotrophin leads to topologically restricted loss of sensory neurons in the embryonic ear [4,5].
Such selective loss in Brn3c null mutants : Such selective loss in Brn3c null mutants would therefore indicate reduction of a specific neurotrophin in immature hair cells.
node_173
embryos : Moreover, recent work shows that in embryos NT-3 is primarily expressed in supporting cells, moving only around birth into hair cells [6,7].
embryos : Moreover, recent work shows that in embryos NT-3 is primarily expressed in supporting cells, moving only around birth into hair cells [6,7].
embryos : In fact, in the cochlea of embryos and neonates as well as in the saccule and utricle of embryos, NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells [6].
embryos : In fact, in the cochlea of embryos and neonates as well as in the saccule and utricle of embryos, NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells [6].
embryos : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
node_176
supporting cells : Moreover, recent work shows that in embryos NT-3 is primarily expressed in supporting cells, moving only around birth into hair cells [6,7].
supporting cells : Moreover, recent work shows that in embryos NT-3 is primarily expressed in supporting cells, moving only around birth into hair cells [6,7].
supporting cells : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
supporting cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
supporting cells : In fact, in the cochlea of embryos and neonates as well as in the saccule and utricle of embryos, NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells [6].
supporting cells : The formation of supporting cells also appears to depend on the proper expression of various bHLH factors such as Hes 1 and 5 which appear to be regulated by the Notch signaling pathway [17,28,29].
supporting cells : It is possible that the apparent inability of fibers to extend along outer hair cells is related to the lack of differentiation of supporting cells in the absence of mature hair cells.
supporting cell : Probing for the proper expression of supporting cell specific markers in Brn3c null mutants is necessary to further evaluate these suggestions.
node_181
cochlear sensory neurons : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
cochlear sensory neurons : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
cochlear sensory neurons : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
cochlear sensory neurons : And yet only about 50% of cochlear sensory neurons are lost overall with a less severe loss in the apex in which we could not detect any immature hair cells with MyoVIIa immunocytochemistry.
node_184
NT-3 expression : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
NT-3 expression : In fact, the selective loss of vestibular as compared to cochlear sensory neurons (77% versus 29%; [3]) suggests that NT-3 expression may be less downregulated in Brn3c null mutants than BDNF [6,8,9], provided that at least some differentiation of supporting cells takes place.
the expression of NT-3 : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
expression of : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
The NT-3 expression : The NT-3 expression is much more diffuse in both control and Brn3c mutant littermates.
NT-3 expression : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
NT-3 expression : In fact, it appears that the levels of NT-3 expression hardly differ from those in control littermates (Figs. 8, 9).
node_192
postnatal mammals : In the ear [4] as well as elsewhere [10] neurotrophins are progressively downregulated in postnatal mammals and possibly replaced by other factors [11].  
postnatal mammals : In the ear [4] as well as elsewhere [10] neurotrophins are progressively downregulated in postnatal mammals and possibly replaced by other factors [11].  
postnatal animals : However, known neurotrophins are largely absent in the adult cochleae [4] and significant amounts of neurotrophin expression appear to develop only in postnatal animals in the CNS [24].
node_199
the expression of NT-3 and BDNF : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
the expression of NT-3 and BDNF : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
expression of BDNF and NT-3 : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
node_200
the expression of : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
the expression of : We have investigated in detail the pattern of innervation in the Brn3c mutants, as well as the expression of NT-3 and BDNF.
expression of BDNF : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
expression of BDNF : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
node_212
DFNA15 : This information could be important for an in-depth evaluation of the human deafness related to the Pou4f3 gene, DFNA15 [12].  
DFNA15 : This information could be important for an in-depth evaluation of the human deafness related to the Pou4f3 gene, DFNA15 [12].  
Pou4f3 : [34] have demonstrated that mutation in a single human allele of Pou4f3 (Brn3c) results in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss.
Pou4f3 : Quantitative data on human Pou4f3 cochleae is needed to verify that spiral neuron loss is more pronounced in the basal, high frequency area of these hearing-deficient patients.
node_213
DFNA15 : This information could be important for an in-depth evaluation of the human deafness related to the Pou4f3 gene, DFNA15 [12].  
DFNA15 : This information could be important for an in-depth evaluation of the human deafness related to the Pou4f3 gene, DFNA15 [12].  
the Pou4f3 gene : This information could be important for an in-depth evaluation of the human deafness related to the Pou4f3 gene, DFNA15 [12].  
node_217
6 months : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
6 months : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
6 months : Note that tubulin-positive fibers can be traced to the immature cells until 6 months (h).
6 months :  In summary, these tracing data suggest that mature hair cells are not necessary to direct fiber outgrowth and to maintain some fibers at least up to 6 months in the apex of the cochlea.
6-month : However, the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month, shows no formation of mature hair cells at any time surveyed here (P0, P8, P10).
node_219
the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice : We report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neurons for at least 6 months, in particular in the cochlear apex, in Brn3c null mutant mice.
the apex of Brn3c null littermates : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
the apex of Brn3c null mice : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
the apex of Brn3c null mice : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month : However, the apex of Brn3c null mutants, which retains most of the spiral neuron afferents at 6-month, shows no formation of mature hair cells at any time surveyed here (P0, P8, P10).
the apex of the Brn3c null mutants : It therefore remains unclear what supports the many afferents in the apex of the Brn3c null mutants until 6 months of age or longer, unknown peripheral neurotrophic substances or neurotrophic support provided by the CNS.
node_224
afferents and efferents : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
afferents and efferents : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
afferents and efferents : However, as in the base, afferents and efferents extend sparingly to the outer hair cell region.
node_228
hair cell differentiation : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
hair cell differentiation : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
differentiation of hair cells : Sections show the degree of differentiation of hair cells and their innervating fibers stained with tubulin immunocytochemistry (arrow; e-h).
node_231
MyoVII : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
MyoVII : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
MyoVII : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
this antibody : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
MyoVII : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
MyoVII : No MyoVII positive immature hair cells exist in the apex.
MyoVII : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_233
MyoVII immunocytochemistry : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
MyoVII immunocytochemistry : This retention of afferents and efferents is unrelated to hair cell differentiation as not even immature hair cells can be detected at early postnatal stages with MyoVII immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea.
MyoVII immunocytochemistry : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
node_240
neonatal rodents : This retention of apical spiral neurons is also largely unrelated to neurotrophins which are known to be reduced in their expression in neonatal rodents [4].  Results  
neonatal rodents : This retention of apical spiral neurons is also largely unrelated to neurotrophins which are known to be reduced in their expression in neonatal rodents [4].  Results  
newborn animals : In newborn animals, the vestibular ganglion shows a dramatic reduction in Brn3c null mutants (b) compared to control littermates (a).
newborn mice : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
newborn animals : As in newborn animals, efferent fibers closely follow the pattern of innervation displayed by afferents (data not shown).  
node_243
the Brn3c null mutation : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
the Brn3c null mutation : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
Brn3c null mutations : The limited qualitative effect of Brn3c null mutations on fiber loss is particularly obvious in the P8 Brn3c null mutant apical turn (Fig. 3g).
the null mutation : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_250
BDNF : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
BDNF : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
BDNF : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
simple BDNF : The progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants shows neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to losses reported in simple BDNF or NT-3 null mutations [6].
node_253
NT-3 null mutations : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
NT-3 null mutations : To appreciate the effects of the Brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation, we first want to present the effects of BDNF and NT-3 null mutations at birth [6,13,14].
null mutations of : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
NT-3 null mutations : The progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants shows neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to losses reported in simple BDNF or NT-3 null mutations [6].
node_256
Null mutants of BDNF : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
Null mutants of BDNF : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
BDNF : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
BDNF null mutant mice : No loss in specific areas, comparable to that in BDNF null mutant mice, is apparent in the saccule or utricle of Brn3c null mice.
BDNF null mutants : Most interestingly, there is no increase in radial fiber spacing in the apex, a specific problem of BDNF null mutants [6,13].  
BDNF : Past research has shown that in BDNF and trkB null mutants this innervation to canal cristae is lost before birth [6,13].
node_258
Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
BDNF and trkB null mutants : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
node_259
Null mutants of : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
Null mutants of : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
trkB null mutants : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
trkB null mutations : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
trkB null mutants : Past research has shown that in BDNF and trkB null mutants this innervation to canal cristae is lost before birth [6,13].
node_264
its receptor trkB : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
its receptor trkB : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
trkB : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
trkB : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
trkB : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
trkB : Past research has shown that in BDNF and trkB null mutants this innervation to canal cristae is lost before birth [6,13].
node_266
the utricle : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
the utricle : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
utricle : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
the utricle : In fact, the reduction of fibers seems to be rather uniform throughout a given sensory epithelium with the crista innervation being qualitatively no more reduced than the innervation of the utricle and saccule.
the utricle : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
the utricle : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
the utricle : Only very few fibers extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferents to these epithelia being almost complete (Fig. 7a and data not shown).
the utricle : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
utricle : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
the utricle : The situation in the utricle, saccule and cochlea is less clear as both BDNF and NT-3 are expressed [6,7].
node_268
saccule : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
saccule : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
saccule : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
saccule : In fact, the reduction of fibers seems to be rather uniform throughout a given sensory epithelium with the crista innervation being qualitatively no more reduced than the innervation of the utricle and saccule.
saccule : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
saccule : In contrast, 20% immature hair cells could be identified in vestibular sensory epithelia (saccule has been selected; bottom) whereas only around 15% of the vestibular sensory neurons survive to this age (VG; top).
saccule : Only very few fibers extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferents to these epithelia being almost complete (Fig. 7a and data not shown).
saccule : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
saccule : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
the saccule : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
saccule : The situation in the utricle, saccule and cochlea is less clear as both BDNF and NT-3 are expressed [6,7].
node_270
apical turn of the cochlea : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
apical turn of the cochlea : Null mutants of BDNF or its receptor trkB lose all innervation to the semicircular canals and have a reduced innervation to the utricle, saccule and apical turn of the cochlea.
apical turn : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the apical turn : DiI (red) was inserted into the basal turn, DiA (green) was inserted into the apical turn.
apical turn : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
node_276
its receptor trkC : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
its receptor trkC : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
trkC : No selective loss of spiral neurons is observed in Brn3c null mutants in the basal turn, a feature of either NT-3 or trkC loss [6,9,14].
node_279
the basal turn : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
the basal turn : In contrast, null mutations of either NT-3 or its receptor trkC result in loss of spiral neurons in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferents extending to the basal tip.
the basal turn : No selective loss of spiral neurons is observed in Brn3c null mutants in the basal turn, a feature of either NT-3 or trkC loss [6,9,14].
the basal turn : In the cochlea there is an increased spacing between radial fiber bundles in the basal turn (c,e).
basal turn : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the basal turn : DiI (red) was inserted into the basal turn, DiA (green) was inserted into the apical turn.
node_282
this study : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
this study : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
this study : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_287
nerve fiber : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
nerve fiber : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
Nerve fibers : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
nerve fibers : Tracing of nerve fibers  DiI tracing from the brainstem was performed as previously described [41].
node_289
nerve fiber loss : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
nerve fiber loss : Our null hypothesis for this study would be that Brn3c null mice show severe compromised production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss.
fiber loss : The limited qualitative effect of Brn3c null mutations on fiber loss is particularly obvious in the P8 Brn3c null mutant apical turn (Fig. 3g).
node_292
Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0) : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0) : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
P0 Brn3c null mutants :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
P0 : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
Brn3c null mutants at P0 : Those mutants have a much more severely reduced density of innervation in the developing cochlea [6,14] than the reduction we found in Brn3c null mutants at P0.
node_294
birth : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
birth : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
P0 : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
node_297
Vestibular ganglia : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Vestibular ganglia : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
the vestibular ganglia : The reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglia is in agreement with quantitative data published previously [3,13].
the vestibular sensory ganglion : Thus, the size reduction in the vestibular sensory ganglion could be compatible with a loss of BDNF production in the immature hair cells.
vestibular ganglia : Figure 1  Size variations of vestibular ganglia in control and mutant littermates labeled with DiI.
the vestibular ganglion : In newborn animals, the vestibular ganglion shows a dramatic reduction in Brn3c null mutants (b) compared to control littermates (a).
vestibular ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
VG : In contrast, 20% immature hair cells could be identified in vestibular sensory epithelia (saccule has been selected; bottom) whereas only around 15% of the vestibular sensory neurons survive to this age (VG; top).
node_301
Fig. : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Fig. : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Fig. : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Figure : Figure 1  Size variations of vestibular ganglia in control and mutant littermates labeled with DiI.
Fig. : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
Fig. : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
Figure : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
Fig. :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
Fig. : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
Fig. : In addition, the pattern of efferent innervation shows no deviation from normal either (Fig. 2e), whereas they show the same pattern of loss as afferent fibers in neurotrophin null mutants [16].
Fig. : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
Fig. : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
Fig. : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
Figure : Figure 3  
Fig. : For example, all three rows of outer hair cells now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates (Fig. 3c).
Figs. : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
Fig. : The apex shows less pronounced deviations from normal (Fig. 3f,3g).
Fig. : There is formation of an inner spiral bundle communicating both afferents and efferents between the focal points where fibers appear to pass through the habenula perforata (Fig. 3f,3g).
Fig. : The limited qualitative effect of Brn3c null mutations on fiber loss is particularly obvious in the P8 Brn3c null mutant apical turn (Fig. 3g).
Fig. : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
Fig. : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
Fig. : For example, the spiral capillary is not found underneath the organ of Corti but in the spiral limbus nearby (Fig. 4).
Fig. : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
Figure : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
Fig. : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
Fig. : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
Figure : Figure 5  
Fig. : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Figure : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
Fig. :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
Fig. : Notably, there are still a number of fibers extending from the very few vestibular sensory neurons to the canal epithelia, in particular the horizontal canal (Fig. 7a,7b).
Fig. : Only very few fibers extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferents to these epithelia being almost complete (Fig. 7a and data not shown).
Fig. : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
Figure : Figure 7  
Fig. :  The cochlea, most prominently the apex, receives many afferent fibers, which form an interrupted inner spiral bundle (Fig. 7c).
Fig. : Some of the radial fiber bundles are myelinated (Fig. 7d).
Fig. : Only an occasional fiber extends beyond the inner spiral bundle into the area of the outer hair cells (Fig. 7d).
Fig. : Even at this late stage in maturation there are still numerous spiral neurons present in the apex (Fig. 7c,7d).
Fig. : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
Fig. : In contrast, only a faint signal was detected in the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8a) and the few silver grains were located predominantly over the area of the immature hair cells.
Figure : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
Fig. : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
Fig. : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
Fig. : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
Fig. : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Figure : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Figs. : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
Fig. : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
Figs. : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
Figs. : In fact, it appears that the levels of NT-3 expression hardly differ from those in control littermates (Figs. 8, 9).
Figs. : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
Figs. : Instead of extending radially through the tunnel of Corti to outer hair cells, afferents appear to stall and extend in longitudinal directions as inner spiral bundles (Figs. 3, 7).
Fig. : Specifically, efferent fibers may suffer the same loss of their molecularly unknown neurotrophic support as do afferents and therefore show the same spatio-temporal profile of loss (Fig. 3).
Fig. : Our data show that at least a cochleotopic projection in the cochlear nerve and the cochlear nuclei develops even in Brn 3c null mutants (Fig. 6).
node_303
Fig. 1b : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Fig. 1b : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
b : In newborn animals, the vestibular ganglion shows a dramatic reduction in Brn3c null mutants (b) compared to control littermates (a).
node_305
control littermates : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
control littermates : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
control littermates : In newborn animals, the vestibular ganglion shows a dramatic reduction in Brn3c null mutants (b) compared to control littermates (a).
control littermates : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
controls : Efferent fibers to the ear show a well developed intraganglionic spiral bundle (IGSB) with no detectable differences compared to controls (e).
control littermates : For example, all three rows of outer hair cells now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates (Fig. 3c).
control : The NT-3 expression is much more diffuse in both control and Brn3c mutant littermates.
control littermates : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
the control : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
the control : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
the control littermates : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
control littermates : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
control littermates : In fact, it appears that the levels of NT-3 expression hardly differ from those in control littermates (Figs. 8, 9).
control littermates : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_308
Fig. 1a : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
Fig. 1a : Brn3c null mutants at birth (P0)  Vestibular ganglia are smaller in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 1b) than in control littermates (Fig. 1a), but larger than in BDNF or trkB null mutants of the same age [13,15].
a : In newborn animals, the vestibular ganglion shows a dramatic reduction in Brn3c null mutants (b) compared to control littermates (a).
node_312
The reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglia : The reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglia is in agreement with quantitative data published previously [3,13].
The reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglia : The reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglia is in agreement with quantitative data published previously [3,13].
the size reduction in the vestibular sensory ganglion : Thus, the size reduction in the vestibular sensory ganglion could be compatible with a loss of BDNF production in the immature hair cells.
node_315
quantitative data published previously : The reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglia is in agreement with quantitative data published previously [3,13].
quantitative data published previously : The reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglia is in agreement with quantitative data published previously [3,13].
These data : These data suggest a loss of 80–85% of vestibular sensory neurons in BDNF and trkB null mutants [13] and of 77% of vestibular sensory neurons in P4 Brn3c null mutants [3].
node_342
anterior crista : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
anterior crista : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
AC : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_345
ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
ggl : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_348
spiral capillary : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
spiral capillary : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
the spiral capillary : For example, the spiral capillary is not found underneath the organ of Corti but in the spiral limbus nearby (Fig. 4).
node_349
spiral capillary : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
spiral capillary : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
c : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_352
geniculate ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
geniculate ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
Genic. ggl. : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_355
greater epithelial ridge : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
greater epithelial ridge : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
GER : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_358
horizontal crista : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
horizontal crista : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
HC : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_361
vestibular hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
vestibular hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
HaC : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_364
inner hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
inner hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
inner hair cells : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
inner : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
inner hair cells : Past work has shown that BDNF and NT-3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cells around birth or are lost in the ear and other parts of the nervous system [6,10,20,23].
node_365
inner hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
inner hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
IHC : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_368
immature hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
immature hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
iHC : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_371
intraganglionic spiral bundle : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
intraganglionic spiral bundle : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
intraganglionic spiral bundle : Efferent fibers to the ear show a well developed intraganglionic spiral bundle (IGSB) with no detectable differences compared to controls (e).
node_372
intraganglionic spiral bundle : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
intraganglionic spiral bundle : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
IGSB : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_375
outer hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
outer hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
the outer hair cells : Note, however, the lack of orderly fiber outgrowth to the outer hair cells (c, d).
outer hair cell : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
outer hair cell : These data suggest that fiber organization in the outer hair cell region is partly disrupted in Brn3c null mutant.
outer hair cells : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
outer hair cells : For example, all three rows of outer hair cells now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates (Fig. 3c).
outer hair cell : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
outer hair cell : However, as in the base, afferents and efferents extend sparingly to the outer hair cell region.
outer hair cells : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
outer hair cells : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
the outer hair cells : Only an occasional fiber extends beyond the inner spiral bundle into the area of the outer hair cells (Fig. 7d).
outer hair cells : Interestingly, the growth to outer hair cells is most affected in Brn3c null mutant cochleae.
outer hair cells : Instead of extending radially through the tunnel of Corti to outer hair cells, afferents appear to stall and extend in longitudinal directions as inner spiral bundles (Figs. 3, 7).
outer hair cells : It is possible that the apparent inability of fibers to extend along outer hair cells is related to the lack of differentiation of supporting cells in the absence of mature hair cells.
outer hair cells : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
node_376
outer hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
outer hair cell : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
OHC : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_379
posterior crista : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
posterior crista : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
PC : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_382
saccule : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
saccule : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
S : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_385
spiral ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
spiral ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
SG : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_388
tectorial membrane : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
tectorial membrane : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
TM : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_391
utricle : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
utricle : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
U : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_394
ventral cochlear nucleus : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
ventral cochlear nucleus : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
the ventral cochlear nucleus : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the ventral cochlear nucleus : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
node_395
ventral cochlear nucleus : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
ventral cochlear nucleus : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
VCN : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_398
vestibular ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
vestibular ganglion : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
VG : Abbreviations for this and other figures: AC, anterior crista; ggl, ganglion; c, spiral capillary; Genic. ggl., geniculate ganglion; GER, greater epithelial ridge; HC, horizontal crista; HaC, vestibular hair cell; IHC, inner hair cell; iHC, immature hair cell; IGSB, intraganglionic spiral bundle; OHC, outer hair cell; PC, posterior crista; S, saccule; SG, spiral ganglion; TM, tectorial membrane; U, utricle; VCN, ventral cochlear nucleus; VG, vestibular ganglion.
node_400
1000 μm : Bar indicates 1000 μm.
1000 μm : Bar indicates 1000 μm.
1000 μm : Bar indicates 1000 μm in a, 100 μm in b-g.  
node_404
afferent : However, the Brn3c null mutants show only a reduced density of afferent and efferent fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia.
afferent : However, the Brn3c null mutants show only a reduced density of afferent and efferent fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia.
afferent fiber : Arrow indicates the efferent bundle as it leaves the afferent fiber tract.
afferent fibers :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
afferent fibers : Alternatively, efferent fibers can sustain established connections only as long as afferent fibers are present.
node_406
efferent fibers : However, the Brn3c null mutants show only a reduced density of afferent and efferent fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia.
efferent fibers : However, the Brn3c null mutants show only a reduced density of afferent and efferent fibers to all vestibular sensory epithelia.
efferent fibers : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
efferent fibers : As in newborn animals, efferent fibers closely follow the pattern of innervation displayed by afferents (data not shown).  
efferent fibers : Previous work has suggested that efferent fibers, derived from facial branchial motoneurons, follow afferents and for that reason reflect in detail all connectional deviations of afferents [16,30-32].
efferent fibers : Specifically, efferent fibers may suffer the same loss of their molecularly unknown neurotrophic support as do afferents and therefore show the same spatio-temporal profile of loss (Fig. 3).
their : Specifically, efferent fibers may suffer the same loss of their molecularly unknown neurotrophic support as do afferents and therefore show the same spatio-temporal profile of loss (Fig. 3).
efferent fibers : Alternatively, efferent fibers can sustain established connections only as long as afferent fibers are present.
efferent fiber : Small filter stripes soaked with saturated DiI were implanted into the efferent fiber bundle near the floor plate or into the ascending or descending afferents in the alar plate [42].
node_410
no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
node_412
all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
the crista innervation : In fact, the reduction of fibers seems to be rather uniform throughout a given sensory epithelium with the crista innervation being qualitatively no more reduced than the innervation of the utricle and saccule.
node_414
the canal crista : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
the canal crista : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
the canal cristae : In contrast, the innervation to the canal cristae, while reduced, has changed little from P0.
the canal cristae : In the canal cristae we expected, and found, only a BDNF signal.
Canal cristae : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
the canal cristae : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
canal cristae : Past research has shown that in BDNF and trkB null mutants this innervation to canal cristae is lost before birth [6,13].
node_417
Fig. 2a : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
Fig. 2a : There is no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista (Fig. 2a), a hallmark of both BDNF and trkB null mutations [13,15].
a : There is no specific loss of fibers to any vestibular endorgan, as visualized by DiI labeling (a) or acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (b).
node_424
fibers : In fact, the reduction of fibers seems to be rather uniform throughout a given sensory epithelium with the crista innervation being qualitatively no more reduced than the innervation of the utricle and saccule.
fibers : In fact, the reduction of fibers seems to be rather uniform throughout a given sensory epithelium with the crista innervation being qualitatively no more reduced than the innervation of the utricle and saccule.
fibers : There is no specific loss of fibers to any vestibular endorgan, as visualized by DiI labeling (a) or acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (b).
fiber : Note, however, the lack of orderly fiber outgrowth to the outer hair cells (c, d).
fiber : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
fiber : These data suggest that fiber organization in the outer hair cell region is partly disrupted in Brn3c null mutant.
fibers : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
fibers : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
fibers : There is formation of an inner spiral bundle communicating both afferents and efferents between the focal points where fibers appear to pass through the habenula perforata (Fig. 3f,3g).
fiber : The limited qualitative effect of Brn3c null mutations on fiber loss is particularly obvious in the P8 Brn3c null mutant apical turn (Fig. 3g).
fibers : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
they : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the fibers : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
fiber : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
fibers : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
fibers : However, spiral sensory neurons are present in Rosenthal's canal (c,d) and fibers extend to the organ of Corti where they form longitudinal tracts in the immature epithelium.
they : However, spiral sensory neurons are present in Rosenthal's canal (c,d) and fibers extend to the organ of Corti where they form longitudinal tracts in the immature epithelium.
fiber :  In summary, these tracing data suggest that mature hair cells are not necessary to direct fiber outgrowth and to maintain some fibers at least up to 6 months in the apex of the cochlea.
fiber : It appears that even these low levels of neurotrophins in the vestibular sensory epithelia can sustain normal fiber outgrowth and a limited maintenance until P0.
fibers :  Growth of fibers to the cochlea does not require mature hair cells
fibers : It is possible that the apparent inability of fibers to extend along outer hair cells is related to the lack of differentiation of supporting cells in the absence of mature hair cells.
node_428
the utricle and saccule : In fact, the reduction of fibers seems to be rather uniform throughout a given sensory epithelium with the crista innervation being qualitatively no more reduced than the innervation of the utricle and saccule.
the utricle and saccule : In fact, the reduction of fibers seems to be rather uniform throughout a given sensory epithelium with the crista innervation being qualitatively no more reduced than the innervation of the utricle and saccule.
the utricle and saccule : Only very few fibers extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferents to these epithelia being almost complete (Fig. 7a and data not shown).
saccule and utricle : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
node_436
acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity : There is no specific loss of fibers to any vestibular endorgan, as visualized by DiI labeling (a) or acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (b).
acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity : The pattern obtained with DiI tracing is identical to that obtained by acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (f,g).
immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_438
tubulin : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
tubulin : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
tubulin : There is no specific loss of fibers to any vestibular endorgan, as visualized by DiI labeling (a) or acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (b).
tubulin : The pattern obtained with DiI tracing is identical to that obtained by acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (f,g).
tubulin : Sections show the degree of differentiation of hair cells and their innervating fibers stained with tubulin immunocytochemistry (arrow; e-h).
tubulin : Briefly, dissected ears were incubated with 1:500 anti-acetylated tubulin antibodies (Sigma, St. Louis) followed by secondary antibodies conjugated to HRP.
node_441
Fig. 2b : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
Fig. 2b : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
b : There is no specific loss of fibers to any vestibular endorgan, as visualized by DiI labeling (a) or acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (b).
node_444
Figure 2 : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
Figure 2 : Similar patterns of innervation are obtained using acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry (Fig. 2b).  Figure 2  Innervation of Brn3c null and control ears are shown for newborn mice.
Figs. 2 : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
node_456
projection : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
projection : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
projection : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
node_458
radial fibers : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
radial fibers : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
radial fiber : Most interestingly, there is no increase in radial fiber spacing in the apex, a specific problem of BDNF null mutants [6,13].  
radial fiber : In the cochlea there is an increased spacing between radial fiber bundles in the basal turn (c,e).
radial fiber : Some of the radial fiber bundles are myelinated (Fig. 7d).
radial fibers :  Formation of radial fibers that bring peripheral processes of spiral neurons to the organ of Corti seems to be rather normal, even in the apex of the cochlea which does not even develop immature hair cells recognizable by Myo VIIa.
node_463
d : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
d : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
d : Note, however, the lack of orderly fiber outgrowth to the outer hair cells (c, d).
Fig. :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
Fig. 2d : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
node_465
f : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
f : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
Fig. 2f : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
node_468
c : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
c : No major differences in pattern of projection through radial fibers are found in the cochlea of Brn3c null mutants (d,f) as compared to control littermates (c).
c : Note, however, the lack of orderly fiber outgrowth to the outer hair cells (c, d).
Fig. 2c :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
Fig. 2c : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
node_475
intraganglionic spiral bundle : Efferent fibers to the ear show a well developed intraganglionic spiral bundle (IGSB) with no detectable differences compared to controls (e).
intraganglionic spiral bundle : Efferent fibers to the ear show a well developed intraganglionic spiral bundle (IGSB) with no detectable differences compared to controls (e).
IGSB : Efferent fibers to the ear show a well developed intraganglionic spiral bundle (IGSB) with no detectable differences compared to controls (e).
node_480
100 μm : Bar indicates 100 μm.
100 μm : Bar indicates 100 μm.
100 μm : Bar indicates 1000 μm in a, 100 μm in b-g.  
100 μm : Bar in c indicates 100 μm.
100 μm : Bar indicates 100 μm.
100 μm : Bar indicates 100 μm.
100 μm : Bar indicates 100 μm.
100 μm : Bar indicates 100 μm.
node_485
our data :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
our data :  Consistent with the finding of Xiang et al. [3] of only a 29% loss of spiral sensory neurons at P4, our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in P0 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2c,2d).
Our data : Our data agree with this scenario but extend it.
Our data : Our data show that at least a cochleotopic projection in the cochlear nerve and the cochlear nuclei develops even in Brn 3c null mutants (Fig. 6).
node_501
overall pattern of innervation : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
overall pattern of innervation : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
the overall pattern of innervation : For example, in BDNF heterozygotic animals there is a small decrease in the number of sensory neurons in the ear [13] but no change in the overall pattern of innervation.
node_504
control animals : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
control animals : Likewise, the innervation of the apex (Fig. 2f) shows no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compared to control animals (data not shown), an indication that BDNF could be expressed in the apex [6].
they : In addition, the pattern of efferent innervation shows no deviation from normal either (Fig. 2e), whereas they show the same pattern of loss as afferent fibers in neurotrophin null mutants [16].
control animals : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
control mice : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
control animals : A strong BDNF signal was found over the hair cells of control animals and an occasional immature hair cell also showed a BDNF signal in the Brn3c null mutants.
control animals : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
node_509
efferent innervation : In addition, the pattern of efferent innervation shows no deviation from normal either (Fig. 2e), whereas they show the same pattern of loss as afferent fibers in neurotrophin null mutants [16].
efferent innervation : In addition, the pattern of efferent innervation shows no deviation from normal either (Fig. 2e), whereas they show the same pattern of loss as afferent fibers in neurotrophin null mutants [16].
efferent : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
efferent innervation : In contrast, our results suggest a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between P0 and at least 6 months.
node_528
all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
the three rows in the outer hair cell region : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
all three rows of outer hair cells : For example, all three rows of outer hair cells now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates (Fig. 3c).
node_530
the basal turn of control wildtype littermates : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
the basal turn of control wildtype littermates : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
basal turn of : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
node_532
control wildtype littermates : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
control wildtype littermates : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
wildtype control littermates : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
node_536
outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
outer hair cells of mutant littermates : No afferents can be traced to the three outer spiral bundles along outer hair cells of mutant littermates (c, e).
node_544
the outer hair cell region : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
the outer hair cell region : Afferents reach all three rows of outer hair cells in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates (Fig. 2c), but both afferent and efferent outgrowth is disorganized to outer hair cells in Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 2d) and does not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundles paralleling the three rows in the outer hair cell region.
the outer hair cell region : These data suggest that fiber organization in the outer hair cell region is partly disrupted in Brn3c null mutant.
the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
the outer hair cell region : However, as in the base, afferents and efferents extend sparingly to the outer hair cell region.
node_560
Fig. 3a : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
Fig. 3a : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
a : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
a : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
node_562
Fig. : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
Fig. : Loss of afferents and, even more clearly of efferents, is most pronounced in the utricle (Fig. 3a,3b) and saccule (data not shown).
b : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
b : While all vestibular sensory epithelia retain some afferent (a) and efferent (b) innervation, there is a more pronounced reduction, in particular of efferent fibers, to the utricle (a,b) as compared to the canals.
node_569
the horizontal canal : In particular the horizontal canal receives a rather dense afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants.
the horizontal canal : In particular the horizontal canal receives a rather dense afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants.
the horizontal canal : Notably, there are still a number of fibers extending from the very few vestibular sensory neurons to the canal epithelia, in particular the horizontal canal (Fig. 7a,7b).
node_574
Figure 3 : Figure 3  
Figure 3 : Figure 3  
Figs. : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
Figs. 3 : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
Figs. 3 : Instead of extending radially through the tunnel of Corti to outer hair cells, afferents appear to stall and extend in longitudinal directions as inner spiral bundles (Figs. 3, 7).
Fig. 3 : Specifically, efferent fibers may suffer the same loss of their molecularly unknown neurotrophic support as do afferents and therefore show the same spatio-temporal profile of loss (Fig. 3).
node_590
c : In the cochlea there is an increased spacing between radial fiber bundles in the basal turn (c,e).
c : In the cochlea there is an increased spacing between radial fiber bundles in the basal turn (c,e).
c : No afferents can be traced to the three outer spiral bundles along outer hair cells of mutant littermates (c, e).
Fig. 3c : For example, all three rows of outer hair cells now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates (Fig. 3c).
node_592
e : In the cochlea there is an increased spacing between radial fiber bundles in the basal turn (c,e).
e : In the cochlea there is an increased spacing between radial fiber bundles in the basal turn (c,e).
e : No afferents can be traced to the three outer spiral bundles along outer hair cells of mutant littermates (c, e).
Figs. : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
node_596
mutant littermates : No afferents can be traced to the three outer spiral bundles along outer hair cells of mutant littermates (c, e).
mutant littermates : No afferents can be traced to the three outer spiral bundles along outer hair cells of mutant littermates (c, e).
the mutant littermate : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
Brn3c mutant littermates : The NT-3 expression is much more diffuse in both control and Brn3c mutant littermates.
the Brn3c null littermates : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
the Brn3c null littermates : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
Brn3c null littermates : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
node_602
the area of outer hair cells : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
the area of outer hair cells : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
the area of the outer hair cells : Only an occasional fiber extends beyond the inner spiral bundle into the area of the outer hair cells (Fig. 7d).
node_606
d : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
d : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
Figs. 3d : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
Fig. 3d : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
node_608
f : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
f : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
f : The pattern obtained with DiI tracing is identical to that obtained by acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (f,g).
Figs. : However, no fibers extend to the outer hair cell region in Brn3c null mutants (Figs. 3d,3e,3f).
Fig. 3f : The apex shows less pronounced deviations from normal (Fig. 3f,3g).
Fig. 3f : There is formation of an inner spiral bundle communicating both afferents and efferents between the focal points where fibers appear to pass through the habenula perforata (Fig. 3f,3g).
node_610
g : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
g : The apex shows little change, except for the absence of fibers to the area of outer hair cells and the formation of inner spiral bundles passing along the few immature hair cells (d,f,g).
g : The pattern obtained with DiI tracing is identical to that obtained by acetylated tubulin immunoreactivity (f,g).
Fig. : The apex shows less pronounced deviations from normal (Fig. 3f,3g).
Fig. : There is formation of an inner spiral bundle communicating both afferents and efferents between the focal points where fibers appear to pass through the habenula perforata (Fig. 3f,3g).
Fig. 3g : The limited qualitative effect of Brn3c null mutations on fiber loss is particularly obvious in the P8 Brn3c null mutant apical turn (Fig. 3g).
Fig. : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
node_623
the base of control littermates : For example, all three rows of outer hair cells now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates (Fig. 3c).
the base of control littermates : For example, all three rows of outer hair cells now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates (Fig. 3c).
the base in : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
node_642
focal spots around the habenula perforata : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
focal spots around the habenula perforata : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
the focal points where fibers appear to pass through the habenula perforata : There is formation of an inner spiral bundle communicating both afferents and efferents between the focal points where fibers appear to pass through the habenula perforata (Fig. 3f,3g).
node_644
the habenula perforata : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
the habenula perforata : In control animals there is dense innervation of inner hair cells, whereas Brn3c null mutants show a curious aggregation of fibers near focal spots around the habenula perforata.
the habenula perforata : There is formation of an inner spiral bundle communicating both afferents and efferents between the focal points where fibers appear to pass through the habenula perforata (Fig. 3f,3g).
the habenula perforata : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
node_677
Fig. 4 : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
Fig. 4 : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
Fig. 4 : For example, the spiral capillary is not found underneath the organ of Corti but in the spiral limbus nearby (Fig. 4).
Fig. 4 : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
Figure 4 : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
Fig. 4 : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
Figs. : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
node_680
Table : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
Table : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
Table : In contrast, more immature hair cells are found in the appropriate position of hair cells in the vestibular endorgans (Table 1).
Table :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
Table : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
Table : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
node_682
Table 1 : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
Table 1 : Immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cells in the cochlea (Fig. 4), which amounted to about 1% (Table 1).
Table 1 : In contrast, more immature hair cells are found in the appropriate position of hair cells in the vestibular endorgans (Table 1).
Table 1 :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
Table 1 : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
Table 1 : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
node_686
more immature hair cells : In contrast, more immature hair cells are found in the appropriate position of hair cells in the vestibular endorgans (Table 1).
more immature hair cells : In contrast, more immature hair cells are found in the appropriate position of hair cells in the vestibular endorgans (Table 1).
these immature hair cells : In fact, the vestibular end organs show no overt morphological defect other than the reduced presence of these immature hair cells.
node_689
the vestibular endorgans : In contrast, more immature hair cells are found in the appropriate position of hair cells in the vestibular endorgans (Table 1).
the vestibular endorgans : In contrast, more immature hair cells are found in the appropriate position of hair cells in the vestibular endorgans (Table 1).
the vestibular end organs : In fact, the vestibular end organs show no overt morphological defect other than the reduced presence of these immature hair cells.
vestibular endorgans : To determine the number of hair cells or neurons in vestibular endorgans or sensory ganglia, serial sections were stained with Cresyl Violet and images were similarly acquired and scored.
node_698
P8 Brn3c null mutants : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
P8 Brn3c null mutants : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
P8 Brn3c null mutants : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
node_704
Rosenthal's canal : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
Rosenthal's canal : Nerve fibers can be traced into the sensory epithelium of P0 and P8 Brn3c null mutants past the habenula perforata and there is a normal location of spiral sensory neurons in Rosenthal's canal in the apex of P8 Brn3c null mutants (Fig. 3d,3g).
Rosenthal's canal : However, spiral sensory neurons are present in Rosenthal's canal (c,d) and fibers extend to the organ of Corti where they form longitudinal tracts in the immature epithelium.
node_714
the organ of Corti : For example, the spiral capillary is not found underneath the organ of Corti but in the spiral limbus nearby (Fig. 4).
the organ of Corti : For example, the spiral capillary is not found underneath the organ of Corti but in the spiral limbus nearby (Fig. 4).
the organ of Corti : In contrast, no such capillary is present underneath the organ of Corti in mutants (f-h) and no tunnel of Corti is found either.
the organ of Corti : However, spiral sensory neurons are present in Rosenthal's canal (c,d) and fibers extend to the organ of Corti where they form longitudinal tracts in the immature epithelium.
the organ of Corti : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
node_719
pillar cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
pillar cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
pillar cells : It has been shown that the differentiation of pillar cells depends on activation of Fgfr3 [26] by FGF's, probably Fgf8, a factor produced by developing and mature inner hair cells [18,27].
node_724
Deiters' cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
Deiters' cells : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
their : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
node_735
7-day old : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
7-day old : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
the P7 wildtype : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
node_737
h : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
h : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
h : Note that tubulin-positive fibers can be traced to the immature cells until 6 months (h).
node_739
a : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
a : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
a : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
node_741
c : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
c : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
c : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
c : Bar in c indicates 100 μm.
node_743
e : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
e : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
e : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
node_747
b : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
b : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
b : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
node_749
d : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
d : The lack of immature hair cells seems to affect also the formation of pillar cells (undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea; Fig. 4) and Deiters' cells (not recognizable based on their morphology), a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cells and supporting cells [17,18].  Figure 4  The distribution of hair cells as identified with MyoVII immunocytochemistry is shown for 7-day old whole mounted cochlea (a-d) and the appearance of cytological differentiation is shown as revealed with epoxy resin sections in 7-day old (e-g) and 6-month old (h) control (a,c,e) and Brn3c mutant cochleae (b,d,f-h).
d : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
node_752
outer hair cells : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
outer hair cells : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
OHC : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
node_755
inner hair cells : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
inner hair cells : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
IHC : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
node_758
the wildtype : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
the wildtype : Note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three rows of outer hair cells (OHC) and the single row of inner hair cells (IHC) in the wildtype (a,c).
wildtype :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
node_762
immature hair cells : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
immature hair cells : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
iHC : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
node_765
the basal turn of the mutant littermate : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
the basal turn of the mutant littermate : In contrast, only few immature hair cells (iHC) are found in the basal turn of the mutant littermate (b) and only an occasional cell is MyoVII immunopositive in the middle turn (d).
basal turn of : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
node_777
arrow : Sections show the degree of differentiation of hair cells and their innervating fibers stained with tubulin immunocytochemistry (arrow; e-h).
arrow : Sections show the degree of differentiation of hair cells and their innervating fibers stained with tubulin immunocytochemistry (arrow; e-h).
Arrow : Arrow indicates the efferent bundle as it leaves the afferent fiber tract.
arrows : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
node_779
a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
such capillary : In contrast, no such capillary is present underneath the organ of Corti in mutants (f-h) and no tunnel of Corti is found either.
node_781
spiral capillary : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
spiral capillary : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
C : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
node_784
the tunnel of Corti : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
the tunnel of Corti : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
tunnel of Corti : In contrast, no such capillary is present underneath the organ of Corti in mutants (f-h) and no tunnel of Corti is found either.
the tunnel of Corti : Instead of extending radially through the tunnel of Corti to outer hair cells, afferents appear to stall and extend in longitudinal directions as inner spiral bundles (Figs. 3, 7).
node_789
P7 : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
P7 : Note the presence of a spiral capillary (C) under the tunnel of Corti separating the inner and outer hair cells in the P7 wildtype (e).
P7 :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
P7 : Mice were genotyped and Brn3c null mutants were raised to a specific age (P0, N = 8; P7, N = 6; P8, N = 6; 6 months old, N = 2).
P7 : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
node_805
P7 :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
P7 :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
7-day old : This graph shows the reduction in sensory neurons (top) and in hair cells (bottom) between 7-day old wildtype and Brn3c null mutant littermates.
node_806
P7 wildtype :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
P7 wildtype :  Table 1  Numbers of hair cells and sensory neurons in P7 wildtype and Brn3c mutant littermates  Differences between wildtype and mutants are all highly significant.
7-day old wildtype : This graph shows the reduction in sensory neurons (top) and in hair cells (bottom) between 7-day old wildtype and Brn3c null mutant littermates.
node_812
cochlear areas : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
cochlear areas : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
the area of the cochlea : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
node_819
Fig. 5 : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
Fig. 5 : Comparison of numbers of immature hair cells in the vestibular and cochlear areas (Fig. 4) with the numbers of surviving vestibular and cochlear sensory neurons does not show any correlation (Table 1; Fig. 5).
Figure 5 : Figure 5  
node_837
spiral sensory neurons : Note the sharp reduction to 1% in the cochlear immature hair cells (bottom) whereas spiral sensory neurons (SG) are only reduced by 50% (top).
spiral sensory neurons : Note the sharp reduction to 1% in the cochlear immature hair cells (bottom) whereas spiral sensory neurons (SG) are only reduced by 50% (top).
SG : Note the sharp reduction to 1% in the cochlear immature hair cells (bottom) whereas spiral sensory neurons (SG) are only reduced by 50% (top).
node_848
DiA : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
DiA : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
DiA : DiI (red) was inserted into the basal turn, DiA (green) was inserted into the apical turn.
node_851
the cochlear nuclei : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the cochlear nuclei : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
cochlear nuclei : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
the cochlear nuclei : Our data show that at least a cochleotopic projection in the cochlear nerve and the cochlear nuclei develops even in Brn 3c null mutants (Fig. 6).
node_854
Fig. 6 : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. 6 : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. 6 : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. 6 : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Figure 6 : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
Fig. 6 : Our data show that at least a cochleotopic projection in the cochlear nerve and the cochlear nuclei develops even in Brn 3c null mutants (Fig. 6).
node_863
the entering cochlear nerve : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the entering cochlear nerve : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the cochlear nerve : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
node_866
Fig. 6a : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. 6a : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
a : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
node_868
the ventral cochlear nucleus : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
the ventral cochlear nucleus : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
VCN : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
node_872
Fig. 6b : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
Fig. 6b : For details on the data see Table 1.  The central projection of DiI and DiA traces fibers to the cochlear nuclei (Fig. 6) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferents (Fig. 6, green) and basal turn afferents (Fig. 6, red) in both the entering cochlear nerve (Fig. 6a) and the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) (Fig. 6b).
b : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
node_881
a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse : Qualitative comparable central projections are found in wildtype control littermates (data not shown) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nuclei is at least until P8 in mice not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell-mediated influences, in agreement with recent suggestions [5,19].  Figure 6  These confocal images show the projection pattern of a P8 Brn3c null mutant mouse.
P8 Brn3c null mutants :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
node_889
discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
each other : Note that the fibers run in discrete bundles inside the cochlear nerve (a), spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral divisions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (b).
node_901
the efferent bundle : Arrow indicates the efferent bundle as it leaves the afferent fiber tract.
the efferent bundle : Arrow indicates the efferent bundle as it leaves the afferent fiber tract.
it : Arrow indicates the efferent bundle as it leaves the afferent fiber tract.
node_908
both afferent and efferent :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
both afferent and efferent :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
both afferents and efferents : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
node_914
Fig. 7a :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
Fig. 7a :  6 months Brn3c null mutants  Very few fibers (both afferent and efferent) to the vestibular epithelia remain (Fig. 7a), thus displaying a further reduction of the pattern of innervation found in P8 Brn3c null mutants.
Fig. 7a : Notably, there are still a number of fibers extending from the very few vestibular sensory neurons to the canal epithelia, in particular the horizontal canal (Fig. 7a,7b).
Fig. 7a : Only very few fibers extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferents to these epithelia being almost complete (Fig. 7a and data not shown).
a : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
node_923
Fig. : Notably, there are still a number of fibers extending from the very few vestibular sensory neurons to the canal epithelia, in particular the horizontal canal (Fig. 7a,7b).
Fig. : Notably, there are still a number of fibers extending from the very few vestibular sensory neurons to the canal epithelia, in particular the horizontal canal (Fig. 7a,7b).
Fig. 7b : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
b : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
b : Transcellular labeling with DiI (b) suggest contacts between these afferents and immature hair cells.
node_935
cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
these cells : However, these cells could not be clearly identified as immature hair cells based on their morphology.
their : However, these cells could not be clearly identified as immature hair cells based on their morphology.
node_937
the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle : Comparable to control mice, there is some transcellular labeling with DiI to cells apparently contacted by the afferent fibers in the Brn3c null mutant utricle (Fig. 7b).
these afferents : Transcellular labeling with DiI (b) suggest contacts between these afferents and immature hair cells.
node_946
Figure 7 : Figure 7  
Figure 7 : Figure 7  
Figs. : Instead of extending radially through the tunnel of Corti to outer hair cells, afferents appear to stall and extend in longitudinal directions as inner spiral bundles (Figs. 3, 7).
node_952
P8 animals : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
P8 animals : Compared to P8 animals there is a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelia, but fibers can be traced to all sensory epithelia (a,b).
8-day old animals : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
node_966
radial bundles : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
radial bundles : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
the radial fiber bundles : Some of the radial fiber bundles are myelinated (Fig. 7d).
node_969
c : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
c : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
c : However, spiral sensory neurons are present in Rosenthal's canal (c,d) and fibers extend to the organ of Corti where they form longitudinal tracts in the immature epithelium.
Fig. 7c :  The cochlea, most prominently the apex, receives many afferent fibers, which form an interrupted inner spiral bundle (Fig. 7c).
Fig. 7c : Even at this late stage in maturation there are still numerous spiral neurons present in the apex (Fig. 7c,7d).
node_971
d : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
d : The cochlea shows a much reduced density of radial bundles, even in the apex (c,d).
d : However, spiral sensory neurons are present in Rosenthal's canal (c,d) and fibers extend to the organ of Corti where they form longitudinal tracts in the immature epithelium.
Fig. 7d : Some of the radial fiber bundles are myelinated (Fig. 7d).
Fig. 7d : Only an occasional fiber extends beyond the inner spiral bundle into the area of the outer hair cells (Fig. 7d).
7d : Even at this late stage in maturation there are still numerous spiral neurons present in the apex (Fig. 7c,7d).
node_983
an interrupted inner spiral bundle :  The cochlea, most prominently the apex, receives many afferent fibers, which form an interrupted inner spiral bundle (Fig. 7c).
an interrupted inner spiral bundle :  The cochlea, most prominently the apex, receives many afferent fibers, which form an interrupted inner spiral bundle (Fig. 7c).
the inner spiral bundle : Only an occasional fiber extends beyond the inner spiral bundle into the area of the outer hair cells (Fig. 7d).
inner spiral bundles : Instead of extending radially through the tunnel of Corti to outer hair cells, afferents appear to stall and extend in longitudinal directions as inner spiral bundles (Figs. 3, 7).
node_1008
the spatio-temporal loss of innervation : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
the spatio-temporal loss of innervation : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
it : Importantly, the spatio-temporal loss of innervation does not follow the pattern of loss known from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutations as it starts in Brn3c mutant mice after birth.
node_1018
In situ hybridization : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
In situ hybridization : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
In situ hybridization : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_1022
four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_1024
P0 : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P0 : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P0 control animals : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
the control animal : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
P0 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
node_1025
P0 : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P0 : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P0 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
node_1029
P8 Brn3c null and control littermates : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P8 Brn3c null and control littermates : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P8 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
node_1030
P8 Brn3c null : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P8 Brn3c null : In situ hybridization confirms neonatal neurotrophin expression  We processed four ears of P0 and P8 Brn3c null and control littermates for expression of BDNF and NT-3 using the riboprobes previously described [7].
P8 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
node_1047
a BDNF signal : In the canal cristae we expected, and found, only a BDNF signal.
a BDNF signal : In the canal cristae we expected, and found, only a BDNF signal.
This signal : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
node_1051
hair cells of the P0 control animals : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
hair cells of the P0 control animals : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
the hair cells in the control animal : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
node_1056
Fig. 8b : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
Fig. 8b : This signal was very strong over hair cells of the P0 control animals (Fig. 8b).
b : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
b : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
node_1061
Fig. 8a : In contrast, only a faint signal was detected in the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8a) and the few silver grains were located predominantly over the area of the immature hair cells.
Fig. 8a : In contrast, only a faint signal was detected in the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8a) and the few silver grains were located predominantly over the area of the immature hair cells.
a : Canal cristae contain only BDNF (a,b), but gravistatic endorgans, such as saccule and utricle, contain both BDNF and NT-3 (c-f).
a : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
node_1068
silver grains : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
silver grains : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
Silver grains : Silver grains are false colored as red to enhance visibility against the grey Nissl-stained background.
node_1074
Figure 8 : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
Figure 8 : The BDNF signal in the utricle was clearly centered on the hair cells in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grains appeared also in the Brn3c null mutants (data not shown).  Figure 8  
Figs. 8 : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
Fig. 8 : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
Figs. 8 : In fact, it appears that the levels of NT-3 expression hardly differ from those in control littermates (Figs. 8, 9).
node_1076
The expression of BDNF : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
The expression of BDNF : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
BDNF : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
node_1077
The expression of : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
The expression of : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
NT-3 mRNA expression : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
node_1082
BDNF : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
BDNF : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
NT-3 mRNA : The expression of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA is shown in the P0 vestibular sensory epithelia.
BDNF : In situ hybridization  Four ears each of Brn3c null mutants (P0 and P8) and control littermates were embedded in paraffin, sectioned and probed for the presence of BDNF and NT-3 mRNA using the in situ technique previously described [7].
node_1100
the hair cell region : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
the hair cell region : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
HaC : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
node_1105
d : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
d : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. 8d : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
node_1110
c : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
c : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
Fig. 8c : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. 8c : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
node_1112
immature hair cells : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
immature hair cells : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
iHC : Note the prominent BDNF expression in the hair cell region (HaC) of control canal (b) and saccule (d) and low levels of expression in the Brn3c null mice (a,c) over immature hair cells (iHC).
node_1128
NT-3 signal : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
NT-3 signal : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
The NT-3 signal : The NT-3 signal was more diffuse in both the control and the Brn3c null littermates but showed some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the Brn3c null mutant.
node_1131
Fig. 8e : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. 8e : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
node_1133
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
Fig. : In the saccule, we directly compared the BDNF (Fig. 8c,8d) and NT-3 signal (Fig. 8e,8f) of the Brn3c null mutant (Fig. 8c,8e) and control littermates (Fig. 8d,8f).
node_1162
Fig. 9b : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
Fig. 9b : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
b : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
node_1167
Fig. 9a : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
Fig. 9a : In the cochlea, the BDNF signal was very weak in the base in both the control (Fig. 9b) and the Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9a).
a : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
node_1176
Fig. 9c : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
Fig. 9c : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
c : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
node_1180
Fig. 9d : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
Fig. 9d : However, there was a surprisingly strong NT-3 signal over the organ of Corti in the apex of Brn3c null littermates (Fig. 9c) that closely matched the signal found in the control littermates (Fig. 9d).
d : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
node_1191
Fig. 9e : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Fig. 9e : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
e : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
node_1193
Fig. : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Fig. : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
f : NT-3 expression persists at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice in an area that topologically compares to the inner hair cells of control animals (e,f, arrows).
node_1196
Figure 9 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Figure 9 : The NT-3 signal in the area of the cochlea that corresponds to the IHC's persisted at least until P8 in the apex of Brn3c null mice (Fig. 9e,9f).  Figure 9  BDNF and NT-3 mRNA expression is shown in the cochlea of P0 (a-d) and P8 (e,f) Brn3c null and control littermates.
Figs. : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
Figs. : In fact, it appears that the levels of NT-3 expression hardly differ from those in control littermates (Figs. 8, 9).
node_1214
wildtype : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
wildtype : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
wildtype : Note the limited expression of BDNF in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates (a,b) and the much stronger expression of NT-3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cells in both wildtype and control littermates (c,d).
wildtype littermates : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_1237
the limited expression of neurotrophins : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
the limited expression of neurotrophins : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
limited expression of neurotrophins :  Immature hair cells and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until P8  The neurotrophins have long been implicated as the mediators for target mediated cell death.
node_1240
primary neurons : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
primary neurons : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
primary neurons :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
their :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
primary neurons : This would work only in cases in which the loss of primary neurons would not already be completed long before birth as is the case in the ear [6,13].  
node_1245
differentiated hair cells : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
differentiated hair cells : We will explore five points in this discussion: How the limited expression of neurotrophins relates to the apparent survival of primary neurons until P8; how the known absence of apical hair cells and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large numbers of apical turn spiral neurons; how absence of differentiated hair cells affects afferent and efferent targeting; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animals and to children born with profound hearing loss.
differentiated hair cells : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
differentiated hair cells : Thus the factor(s) cannot be released by differentiated hair cells but there is an unexplored possibility of generalized expression of neurotrophins at low levels in the undifferentiated epithelia.
node_1253
target :  Immature hair cells and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until P8  The neurotrophins have long been implicated as the mediators for target mediated cell death.
target :  Immature hair cells and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until P8  The neurotrophins have long been implicated as the mediators for target mediated cell death.
target : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
node_1255
this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
this theory : Past experiments, which eliminated one or more neurotrophins entirely, only partially tested the basic assumption of this theory in vivo.
node_1258
the target tissue : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
the target tissue : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
the immature target :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
node_1261
only properly connected sensory neurons : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
only properly connected sensory neurons : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
only these : In essence, this theory of regulation of neuronal connections via neurotrophic support implies that only limited quantities of neurotrophins are released by the target tissue to support only properly connected sensory neurons by providing only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [21].
node_1272
the neurotrophin/neurotrophin receptor null mutants studied to date : Moreover, all of the neurotrophin/neurotrophin receptor null mutants studied to date eliminate expression in both the peripheral target and the brain simultaneously and achieve their effects in late embryos.
the neurotrophin/neurotrophin receptor null mutants studied to date : Moreover, all of the neurotrophin/neurotrophin receptor null mutants studied to date eliminate expression in both the peripheral target and the brain simultaneously and achieve their effects in late embryos.
their : Moreover, all of the neurotrophin/neurotrophin receptor null mutants studied to date eliminate expression in both the peripheral target and the brain simultaneously and achieve their effects in late embryos.
node_1276
the CNS : In contrast, Brn3c is barely expressed during embryogenesis in the CNS [22] thus arguing that the survival of ear primary neurons depends crucially on the periphery.
the CNS : In contrast, Brn3c is barely expressed during embryogenesis in the CNS [22] thus arguing that the survival of ear primary neurons depends crucially on the periphery.
the CNS : However, known neurotrophins are largely absent in the adult cochleae [4] and significant amounts of neurotrophin expression appear to develop only in postnatal animals in the CNS [24].
the CNS : Such expression in the CNS could possibly offset to some extent the peripheral loss of neutrophins in targeted null mutants.
the CNS : It therefore remains unclear what supports the many afferents in the apex of the Brn3c null mutants until 6 months of age or longer, unknown peripheral neurotrophic substances or neurotrophic support provided by the CNS.
node_1280
suggest :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
suggest :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
this suggestion : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
node_1288
newborn :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
newborn :  We suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target leads to retention of primary neurons and their afferent fibers in newborn and early postnatal Brn3c null mice.
newborn Brn3c null mutants : The comparatively high level of NT-3 expression in Brn3c null mutant cochlea, which has been shown to be the neurotrophin most prominently supporting spiral sensory neurons [6,9,14], is in agreement with the normal development of cochlear innervation in newborn Brn3c null mutants.
node_1293
a severe reduction in expression of BDNF : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
a severe reduction in expression of BDNF : In agreement with this suggestion, our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of BDNF (Figs. 8, 9).
this reduction : Despite this reduction, some, apparently biologically significant low levels of neurotrophins are apparently expressed in all sensory epithelia in embryonic Brn3c null mutants.
node_1301
biologically significant low levels of neurotrophins : Despite this reduction, some, apparently biologically significant low levels of neurotrophins are apparently expressed in all sensory epithelia in embryonic Brn3c null mutants.
biologically significant low levels of neurotrophins : Despite this reduction, some, apparently biologically significant low levels of neurotrophins are apparently expressed in all sensory epithelia in embryonic Brn3c null mutants.
these low levels of neurotrophins in the vestibular sensory epithelia : It appears that even these low levels of neurotrophins in the vestibular sensory epithelia can sustain normal fiber outgrowth and a limited maintenance until P0.
node_1321
only limited expression of BDNF : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
only limited expression of BDNF : Since BDNF appears to be exclusively produced by hair cells [6,7,20], the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cells appears to be accompanied by only limited expression of BDNF, as is the case in the canal cristae (Fig. 8).
these low levels of expression : That even these low levels of expression are significant is clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelia receive an innervation by both afferents and efferents at birth and later (Figs. 2, 3).
node_1361
NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells : In fact, in the cochlea of embryos and neonates as well as in the saccule and utricle of embryos, NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells [6].
NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells : In fact, in the cochlea of embryos and neonates as well as in the saccule and utricle of embryos, NT-3 is predominantly expressed in supporting cells [6].
This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
node_1374
apical sensory neurons : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
apical sensory neurons : This expression of NT-3 in supporting cells in embryos and neonates may even preserve in Brn3c null mutants the numerous spiral sensory neurons in the apex of 8-day old animals (Figs. 3, 4).  Long term survival of apical sensory neurons is unrelated to differentiated hair cells and likely is independent of neurotrophins  
apical spiral sensory neurons : Comparable long term retention of apical spiral sensory neurons was described for the deaf white cat [25] and may also be the case in humans with congenital deafness.
node_1410
6 months of age : It therefore remains unclear what supports the many afferents in the apex of the Brn3c null mutants until 6 months of age or longer, unknown peripheral neurotrophic substances or neurotrophic support provided by the CNS.
6 months of age : It therefore remains unclear what supports the many afferents in the apex of the Brn3c null mutants until 6 months of age or longer, unknown peripheral neurotrophic substances or neurotrophic support provided by the CNS.
6 months old : Mice were genotyped and Brn3c null mutants were raised to a specific age (P0, N = 8; P7, N = 6; P8, N = 6; 6 months old, N = 2).
node_1414
the deaf white cat : Comparable long term retention of apical spiral sensory neurons was described for the deaf white cat [25] and may also be the case in humans with congenital deafness.
the deaf white cat : Comparable long term retention of apical spiral sensory neurons was described for the deaf white cat [25] and may also be the case in humans with congenital deafness.
the deaf white cat : Similar data are also needed for other congenitally deaf children [36] and in the deaf white cat [25].
the deaf white cat : Similar long term retention of apical afferents exists in the deaf white cat [25] and should be explored in other model systems with embryonic and neonatal hair cell loss [37,38].  Methods
node_1428
even less differentiated hair cell precursors : This does not preclude that even less differentiated hair cell precursors may form in the apex or that those precursors have died before birth.
even less differentiated hair cell precursors : This does not preclude that even less differentiated hair cell precursors may form in the apex or that those precursors have died before birth.
those precursors : This does not preclude that even less differentiated hair cell precursors may form in the apex or that those precursors have died before birth.
node_1445
Fgf8 : It has been shown that the differentiation of pillar cells depends on activation of Fgfr3 [26] by FGF's, probably Fgf8, a factor produced by developing and mature inner hair cells [18,27].
Fgf8 : It has been shown that the differentiation of pillar cells depends on activation of Fgfr3 [26] by FGF's, probably Fgf8, a factor produced by developing and mature inner hair cells [18,27].
a factor produced by developing and mature inner hair cells : It has been shown that the differentiation of pillar cells depends on activation of Fgfr3 [26] by FGF's, probably Fgf8, a factor produced by developing and mature inner hair cells [18,27].
node_1464
this scenario : Our data agree with this scenario but extend it.
this scenario : Our data agree with this scenario but extend it.
it : Our data agree with this scenario but extend it.
node_1481
a cochleotopic projection : These data suggest that a cochleotopic projection develops before onset of hearing.
a cochleotopic projection : These data suggest that a cochleotopic projection develops before onset of hearing.
Cochleotopic projection : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_1494
NT-3 null mutants : Those data are also consistent with the formation of a crude cochleotopic projection in NT-3 null mutants [6,14].
NT-3 null mutants : Those data are also consistent with the formation of a crude cochleotopic projection in NT-3 null mutants [6,14].
Those mutants : Those mutants have a much more severely reduced density of innervation in the developing cochlea [6,14] than the reduction we found in Brn3c null mutants at P0.
node_1503
the recently generated transgenic mouse : In this context, it would be interesting to see whether the recently generated transgenic mouse in which BDNF is expressed under NT-3 promoter control [33] could actually perform an even more pronounced rescue in a Brn3c null mutant background.
the recently generated transgenic mouse : In this context, it would be interesting to see whether the recently generated transgenic mouse in which BDNF is expressed under NT-3 promoter control [33] could actually perform an even more pronounced rescue in a Brn3c null mutant background.
the recently available mutant mice : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
these model mice : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
node_1512
Brn3c : [34] have demonstrated that mutation in a single human allele of Pou4f3 (Brn3c) results in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss.
Brn3c : [34] have demonstrated that mutation in a single human allele of Pou4f3 (Brn3c) results in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss.
a single human allele of Pou4f3 : [34] have demonstrated that mutation in a single human allele of Pou4f3 (Brn3c) results in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss.
node_1514
a late onset of high frequency hearing loss : [34] have demonstrated that mutation in a single human allele of Pou4f3 (Brn3c) results in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss.
a late onset of high frequency hearing loss : [34] have demonstrated that mutation in a single human allele of Pou4f3 (Brn3c) results in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss.
the late onset of hearing loss : Thus far no data are available that correlate the late onset of hearing loss with morphological defects in the cochlea.
node_1520
Brn3c heterozygotic mice : In fact, an investigation of Brn3c heterozygotic mice showed no additional effect on hearing loss due to haploinsufficiency in these mice [35].
Brn3c heterozygotic mice : In fact, an investigation of Brn3c heterozygotic mice showed no additional effect on hearing loss due to haploinsufficiency in these mice [35].
these mice : In fact, an investigation of Brn3c heterozygotic mice showed no additional effect on hearing loss due to haploinsufficiency in these mice [35].
node_1534
afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice : Further work on the recently available mutant mice with specific absence of all hair cells [37], outer hair cells in the base [38] or apex [39] could further help to clarify the role of hair cells in forming and maintaining afferent and efferent innervation in these model mice.
afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants : The progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in Brn3c null mutants shows neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to losses reported in simple BDNF or NT-3 null mutations [6].
node_1551
a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between P0 and at least 6 months : In contrast, our results suggest a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between P0 and at least 6 months.
a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between P0 and at least 6 months : In contrast, our results suggest a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between P0 and at least 6 months.
This late sensory neuron loss : This late sensory neuron loss is likely not related to known neurotrophin signaling which becomes reduced in neonatal wildtype animals.
node_1559
Other factors : Other factors, such as GDNF [11,40] need to be investigated in their expression in these mutants and their functional role needs to be assessed, in particular in the cochlear apex.
Other factors : Other factors, such as GDNF [11,40] need to be investigated in their expression in these mutants and their functional role needs to be assessed, in particular in the cochlear apex.
their : Other factors, such as GDNF [11,40] need to be investigated in their expression in these mutants and their functional role needs to be assessed, in particular in the cochlear apex.
their : Other factors, such as GDNF [11,40] need to be investigated in their expression in these mutants and their functional role needs to be assessed, in particular in the cochlear apex.
node_1570
Brn3c mice : Breeding and genotyping  Brn3c mice were bred as previously described [22].
Brn3c mice : Breeding and genotyping  Brn3c mice were bred as previously described [22].
Mice : Mice were genotyped and Brn3c null mutants were raised to a specific age (P0, N = 8; P7, N = 6; P8, N = 6; 6 months old, N = 2).
The animals : The animals were deeply anesthetized with pentobarbital and transcardially perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4).
node_1580
4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) : The animals were deeply anesthetized with pentobarbital and transcardially perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4).
4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) : The animals were deeply anesthetized with pentobarbital and transcardially perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 7.4).
the same fixative : Ears were postfixed in the same fixative for at least one day prior to dissection.
node_1587
Small filter stripes soaked with saturated DiI : Small filter stripes soaked with saturated DiI were implanted into the efferent fiber bundle near the floor plate or into the ascending or descending afferents in the alar plate [42].
Small filter stripes soaked with saturated DiI : Small filter stripes soaked with saturated DiI were implanted into the efferent fiber bundle near the floor plate or into the ascending or descending afferents in the alar plate [42].
DiI soaked filter strips : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
DiA soaked filter strips : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_1592
the ears : After appropriate diffusion time of the dye, the ears were dissected and mounted flat for visualization in an epifluorescent microscope.
the ears : After appropriate diffusion time of the dye, the ears were dissected and mounted flat for visualization in an epifluorescent microscope.
dissected ears : Briefly, dissected ears were incubated with 1:500 anti-acetylated tubulin antibodies (Sigma, St. Louis) followed by secondary antibodies conjugated to HRP.
the ears : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_1594
Images : Images were taken on black and white film or acquired with a cooled CCD camera and processed using ImagePro software (Media Cybernetics).  
Images : Images were taken on black and white film or acquired with a cooled CCD camera and processed using ImagePro software (Media Cybernetics).  
Image : Image stacks were collapsed to view the entire projection in one section in one focal plane.
Images : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
images : To determine the number of hair cells or neurons in vestibular endorgans or sensory ganglia, serial sections were stained with Cresyl Violet and images were similarly acquired and scored.
image : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_1597
acetylated tubulin : Ears were subsequently reacted for acetylated tubulin to reveal the pattern of innervation in addition to the DiI tracing with a different technique as previously described [14].
acetylated tubulin : Ears were subsequently reacted for acetylated tubulin to reveal the pattern of innervation in addition to the DiI tracing with a different technique as previously described [14].
acetylated tubulin : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
node_1603
HRP : Briefly, dissected ears were incubated with 1:500 anti-acetylated tubulin antibodies (Sigma, St. Louis) followed by secondary antibodies conjugated to HRP.
HRP : Briefly, dissected ears were incubated with 1:500 anti-acetylated tubulin antibodies (Sigma, St. Louis) followed by secondary antibodies conjugated to HRP.
HRP : Dissected inner ears were reacted with DAB and H2O2 for HRP distribution and subsequently viewed as whole mounts.
node_1606
whole mounts : Dissected inner ears were reacted with DAB and H2O2 for HRP distribution and subsequently viewed as whole mounts.
whole mounts : Dissected inner ears were reacted with DAB and H2O2 for HRP distribution and subsequently viewed as whole mounts.
whole mounts : After photographing as whole mounts, the ears were embedded in epoxy resin and sectioned to reveal the distribution of fibers inside the sensory epithelia in more detail.  Cochleotopic projection was evaluated by inserting DiI soaked filter strips into the base and DiA soaked filter strips into the apical turn of 2 P0 and 4 P8 Brn3c null mutants and a similar number of wildtype littermates.
node_1640
MyoVIIa : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
MyoVIIa : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
the hair cell specific-myosin VII : Images were acquired with a CCD camera and displayed as false color images as previously described [18].  Immunocytochemistry of hair cells and quantification of hair cells and neurons  Immunostaining of P7 cochlear whole mounts using the hair cell specific-myosin VII (MyoVIIa) antibody was performed as previously described [2].
node_1642
Images of labeled organs of Corti : Images of labeled organs of Corti were then acquired using a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments Inc.) and the number of hair cells was scored from acquired images.
Images of labeled organs of Corti : Images of labeled organs of Corti were then acquired using a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments Inc.) and the number of hair cells was scored from acquired images.
acquired images : Images of labeled organs of Corti were then acquired using a SPOT digital camera (Diagnostic Instruments Inc.) and the number of hair cells was scored from acquired images.
node_1648
each sensory epithelium : Every other section was scored for each sensory epithelium and every forth section was scored for each ganglion.
each sensory epithelium : Every other section was scored for each sensory epithelium and every forth section was scored for each ganglion.
each epithelium : Only neurons or cells with a clear nucleus and nucleoli were counted and 4–6 samples were counted for each epithelium and ganglion.
node_1650
each ganglion : Every other section was scored for each sensory epithelium and every forth section was scored for each ganglion.
each ganglion : Every other section was scored for each sensory epithelium and every forth section was scored for each ganglion.
each : Only neurons or cells with a clear nucleus and nucleoli were counted and 4–6 samples were counted for each epithelium and ganglion.
node_1654
Authors : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
Authors : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
All authors : All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
node_1656
MX : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
MX : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
MX : Acknowledgements  Supported by the National Eye Institute (EY12020, MX), the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (MX), the Egyptian Government (AM), the Juselius Foundation (UP), the NIDCD (2 P01 DC00215, BF; DC04594, M.X.), the Taub foundation (BF) and NASA (01-OBPR-06; BF).
MX : Acknowledgements  Supported by the National Eye Institute (EY12020, MX), the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (MX), the Egyptian Government (AM), the Juselius Foundation (UP), the NIDCD (2 P01 DC00215, BF; DC04594, M.X.), the Taub foundation (BF) and NASA (01-OBPR-06; BF).
node_1661
AM : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
AM : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
AM : Acknowledgements  Supported by the National Eye Institute (EY12020, MX), the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (MX), the Egyptian Government (AM), the Juselius Foundation (UP), the NIDCD (2 P01 DC00215, BF; DC04594, M.X.), the Taub foundation (BF) and NASA (01-OBPR-06; BF).
node_1664
UP : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
UP : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
UP : Acknowledgements  Supported by the National Eye Institute (EY12020, MX), the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (MX), the Egyptian Government (AM), the Juselius Foundation (UP), the NIDCD (2 P01 DC00215, BF; DC04594, M.X.), the Taub foundation (BF) and NASA (01-OBPR-06; BF).
node_1667
BF : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
BF : Authors' contributions  MX generated the null mutation, bred all the mice used for this study and generated the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with MyoVII, AM conducted the tract tracing studies of cochlear afferents and helped with the histological analysis and assembly of image plates, UP carried out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assembled the plates for these data, BF wrote the manuscript, carried out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylated tubulin and data presentation.
BF : Acknowledgements  Supported by the National Eye Institute (EY12020, MX), the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (MX), the Egyptian Government (AM), the Juselius Foundation (UP), the NIDCD (2 P01 DC00215, BF; DC04594, M.X.), the Taub foundation (BF) and NASA (01-OBPR-06; BF).
BF : Acknowledgements  Supported by the National Eye Institute (EY12020, MX), the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (MX), the Egyptian Government (AM), the Juselius Foundation (UP), the NIDCD (2 P01 DC00215, BF; DC04594, M.X.), the Taub foundation (BF) and NASA (01-OBPR-06; BF).
BF : Acknowledgements  Supported by the National Eye Institute (EY12020, MX), the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation (MX), the Egyptian Government (AM), the Juselius Foundation (UP), the NIDCD (2 P01 DC00215, BF; DC04594, M.X.), the Taub foundation (BF) and NASA (01-OBPR-06; BF).
