0
annexin A7 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
annexin A7 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
Annexin A7 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
the 47 kDa isoform : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
it : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
annexin A7 : The role of annexin A7 in red blood cells was addressed in erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice.
annexin A7 : Instead, lack of annexin A7 led to an altered cell shape and increased osmotic resistance of red blood cells.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 was also identified in platelets.
its : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
annexin A7 : The results appear to rule out an important role of annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes occurring in red blood cells.
the protein : Instead the protein might be involved in the organization of the membrane cytoskeleton.
annexin A7 : Red blood cells may represent an appropriate model to study the role of annexin A7 in cellular processes.
annexin A7 : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
the small isoform : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
annexin A7 : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
annexin A7 : The defects observed are however not compatible with a crucial role for annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes in these cell types.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
annexin A7's : This activity led to the proposal of annexin A7's involvement in the exocytotic secretion of catecholamines [1].
The protein : The protein belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins of a bipartite structure with a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal domain.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 is unique in that it carries an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids.
it : Annexin A7 is unique in that it carries an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids.
annexin A7 : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 translocates to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent fashion and, when intracellular Ca2+ levels rise, sequentially redistributes to the plasma and the nuclear membrane as well as to intracellular vesicles.
annexin A7 : Furthermore, annexin A7 associates with lipid rafts [7].
annexin A7 : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
annexin A7 : Like annexin A7 it binds to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
annexin A7 : The influence of the sorcin/annexin A7 interaction on the ryanodine receptor is unknown.
annexin A7 : Sorcin and annexin A7 are coexpressed in all tissues examined so far [11].
annexin A7 : The binding of annexin A7 and sorcin is Ca2+-dependent and occurs at micromolar Ca2+ concentrations.
annexin A7 : The binding sites have been localised to the amino terminal GGYY and GYGG motifs in sorcin and to the GYPP motif in the amino terminus of annexin A7.
annexin A7 : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
annexin A7 : Down regulation of annexin A7 prevents galectin-3 translocation to the perinuclear membrane and increases galectin-3 secretion.
annexin A7 : For annexin A7 a role for galectin-3 trafficking, apoptosis regulation, and mitochondrial integrity was proposed [13].  
annexin A7 : The cellular role of annexin A7 is not well understood.
It : It is thought to regulate and stabilize membrane domains and to have a role in Ca2+ homeostasis and Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways.
annexin A7 : These proposals are supported by data obtained from analysis of annexin A7 deficient mouse mutants.
the anxA7-/- mutant : Here we have focused on the analysis of red blood cells and platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant.
annexin A7 : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
annexin A7 : Furthermore, they contain sorcin and annexin A7 attached to the lipid rafts.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
annexin A7 : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
its : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
annexin A7 : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
annexin A7 : Figure 1  Expression of annexin A7 in human red blood cells (1) and human platelets (2).
Its : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
annexin A7 : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
annexin A7 : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
annexin A7 : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
it : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
annexin A7 : It appears that annexin A7, although it has been described to fuse membranes, is not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles.
it : It appears that annexin A7, although it has been described to fuse membranes, is not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles.
annexin A7 : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
annexin A7 : In general, annexin A7 and sorcin are more abundant in nanovesicles.
annexin A7 : The 51 kDa isoform of annexin A7 (arrows) is only observed in nanovesicles.
annexin A7 : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
annexin A7 : This could reflect the binding of annexin A7 to membrane subdomains that have different lipid or lipid/protein composition as discussed by Salzer et al. [7].
annexin A7 : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
annexin A7 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
annexin A7 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
the protein :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 : The typical biconcave form depends on various influences including the membrane lipid composition and the submembranous cytoskeleton [32] where annexin A7 might play a role.
annexin A7 : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
annexin A7 : These data suggest that annexin A7 contributes to the shape of red blood cells and the osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
it : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 affects primary haemostasis ex vivo  
the anxA7-/-mice : By contrast, the anxA7-/-mice are healthy and viable.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 deficient platelets showed a slightly lowered aggregation velocity.
Annexin A7 :  Annexin A7 is thought to have a role in vesicle fusion and in regulating and stabilizing membrane domains [1].
The protein : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
it : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
it : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
annexin A7 : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
annexin A7 : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
annexin A7 : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
annexin A7 : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
annexin A7 : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
annexin A7 : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
annexin A7 : Similarly, the presence of GTP enhanced the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7.
annexin A7 : These results were thought to support a direct role for annexin A7 in surfactant secretion, but in these studies annexin A7 mediated membrane fusion was separated from a second GTP-dependent mechanism [38].
annexin A7 : These results were thought to support a direct role for annexin A7 in surfactant secretion, but in these studies annexin A7 mediated membrane fusion was separated from a second GTP-dependent mechanism [38].
annexin A7 :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
annexin A7 : It might well be that the observed fusion of phospholipid layers by annexin A7 in the presence of high Ca2+ concentrations may turn out to be an in vitro effect.
annexin A7 : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
annexin A7 : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
annexin A7 : Furthermore, the distribution of both annexin A7 isoforms in gradients of red blood cells indicates a function which differs from organizing subcellular membranes or membrane pathways.
annexin A7 : Whereas annexin A2 is tightly associated with endosomes and may have functions in membrane fusion and the endosomal pathway, annexin A7 distributes with plasma membrane raft domains of different types and densities.
annexin A7 : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
annexin A7 : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
its : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
annexin A7 :  Having excluded a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion, annexin A7 might act by its property as Ca2+-binding protein [17].
its :  Having excluded a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion, annexin A7 might act by its property as Ca2+-binding protein [17].
annexin A7 : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
annexin A7 : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
it : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
annexin A7 : However, so far no other members of the annexin family, which may substitute for annexin A7, have been described in red blood cells.
Annexin A7 : Membrane cholesterol diminishes red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex, whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogates association of all raft proteins with no significant effect on areas in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [45,46].  Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells show a more flat shape and have a higher osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 : The presence of annexin A7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it supports the typical biconcave membrane shape and leads to a lower minimal osmotic resistance.
it : The presence of annexin A7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it supports the typical biconcave membrane shape and leads to a lower minimal osmotic resistance.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 does not appear to have an influence on plasma membrane integrity itself as the maximal osmotic resistance value stays constant.
itself : Annexin A7 does not appear to have an influence on plasma membrane integrity itself as the maximal osmotic resistance value stays constant.
annexin A7 : Annexins have been reported to bind directly to F-actin, we could however exclude such an activity for annexin A7.
it : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
its : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
annexin A7 : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
annexin A7 : In the platelet aggregation experiments the initial aggregation velocity was slightly, but significantly lower in platelets lacking annexin A7.
recombinant annexin A7 : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
annexin A7 : The observed cell shape change of erythrocytes lacking annexin A7 might be due to alterations in the erythrocyte cytoskeleton.
annexin's : As a direct interaction with F-actin was ruled out, this effect might be mediated by annexin's Ca2+-binding activity.
annexin A7 : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
the protein : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
1
red blood cells : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
themselves : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
2
platelets : Annexin A7 was also identified in platelets.
these cells : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
3
these cells its loss : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
the loss of annexin A7 : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
4
both cell types : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
these cell types : The defects observed are however not compatible with a crucial role for annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes in these cell types.
both vesicle types : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
both vesicle types : The quantity of both vesicle types did not differ between wild type and knock out red blood cell vesicles as determined by the AChE-values (A405 nanovesicles: ~0.18; A405 microvesicles: ~0.9; both, for wt and ko).
5
isolated : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
This activity : This activity led to the proposal of annexin A7's involvement in the exocytotic secretion of catecholamines [1].
6
a conserved C-terminal domain : The protein belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins of a bipartite structure with a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal domain.
The C-terminal domain : The C-terminal domain is responsible for the Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding, the N-terminal domain appears to confer functional diversity [2-4].
the N-terminal domain : The C-terminal domain is responsible for the Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding, the N-terminal domain appears to confer functional diversity [2-4].
the N-terminal domain : Both isoforms differ by an additional cassette exon located in the first third of the N-terminal domain.
Fig. 1 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
washing buffer : The final pellet of this step was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 15,000 × g again to purify a supernatant enriched in nanovesicles according to [7,20].
7
two isoforms of 47 and 51 kDa : Alternative splicing gives rise to two isoforms of 47 and 51 kDa.
Both isoforms : Both isoforms differ by an additional cassette exon located in the first third of the N-terminal domain.
both forms : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
8
sorcin : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
Sorcin : Sorcin is a Ca2+-binding protein and belongs to the penta EF-hand protein family [14].
it : Like annexin A7 it binds to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
Sorcin : Sorcin also has been described as interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor, and appears to modulate its function [15].
sorcin : The binding of annexin A7 and sorcin is Ca2+-dependent and occurs at micromolar Ca2+ concentrations.
sorcin : The binding sites have been localised to the amino terminal GGYY and GYGG motifs in sorcin and to the GYPP motif in the amino terminus of annexin A7.
CZ : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
9
the ryanodine receptor : Sorcin also has been described as interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor, and appears to modulate its function [15].
its : Sorcin also has been described as interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor, and appears to modulate its function [15].
the ryanodine receptor : The influence of the sorcin/annexin A7 interaction on the ryanodine receptor is unknown.
10
We : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
we : Here we have focused on the analysis of red blood cells and platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant.
We : We have now extended these findings and show here that the 51 kDa isoform is present as well.
we : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
we : Because of better accessibility and larger available amounts that led to clear results, we included our data obtained with human blood.
our : Because of better accessibility and larger available amounts that led to clear results, we included our data obtained with human blood.
we : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
we : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
we : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
We : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
we :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
we : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
We : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
we : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
We : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
we : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
us : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
We : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
we : In these tests of whole blood we found only a change in the platelet numbers, whereas all other haematological parameters were not affected.
we : Therefore we tested the platelet function and performed aggregometry measurements with platelet rich plasma.
we : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
we : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
our : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
we : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
We : We showed the presence of the 51 kDa isoform as well, adding red blood cells to the list of cells that harbor this isoform.
we :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
Our : Our data suggest that the efficiency of micro- and nanovesicle formation is not significantly different in wild type and mutant red blood cells.
We : We have also observed a defect in platelet function in the annexin A7 mutant.
we : However the reaction speed of murine platelets is much higher than those of human and due to the technical setup we might have missed larger changes in the mouse samples.
this paper : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
we : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
We : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
our : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
this study : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
our : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
We : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
11
Ca2+-dependent processes : Red blood cells undergo various biochemical or morphological changes that appear to be Ca2+-dependent processes [18,19].
them : One of them is the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20].
12
the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20 : One of them is the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20].
This process : This process is thought to represent a protective method of the red blood cell against an attack by for example complement components.
13
two types of vesicles : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
They : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
they : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
they : Furthermore, they contain sorcin and annexin A7 attached to the lipid rafts.
14
sorcin : Furthermore, they contain sorcin and annexin A7 attached to the lipid rafts.
Both proteins : Both proteins are more abundant in nanovesicles.
15
the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
they : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
16
reported : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
these findings : We have now extended these findings and show here that the 51 kDa isoform is present as well.
17
the 47 kDa isoform : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
The 47 kDa isoform : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
its : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
the annexin A7 mutant : We have also observed a defect in platelet function in the annexin A7 mutant.
18
The proteins : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
Both isoforms : Both isoforms are detected in red blood cells, in platelets only the small isoform is present.
Both isoforms : Both isoforms were present in the soluble fraction as well as in the gradient fractions where they are assumed to be associated with membranes.
they : Both isoforms were present in the soluble fraction as well as in the gradient fractions where they are assumed to be associated with membranes.
the two isoforms : In specialized or terminally differentiated cells, expression levels increase and frequently the larger of the two isoforms is being expressed [6,34,35].  
19
plays : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
this : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
20
The 51 kDa isoform : The 51 kDa isoform was only detected in western blots.
The 51 kDa isoform : The 51 kDa isoform is only detectable in nanovesicles.
21
mutant vesicles : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
the mutant nanovesicles : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
22
Fig. 2 : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
Figure 2 : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
23
Samples of both vesicles types : Samples of both vesicles types were normalized according to their acetylcholine esterase activity.
their : Samples of both vesicles types were normalized according to their acetylcholine esterase activity.
24
membranes : Both isoforms were present in the soluble fraction as well as in the gradient fractions where they are assumed to be associated with membranes.
These membranes : These membranes are exclusively plasma membranes as red blood cells are free of any organelles.
25
was : The distribution was however not homogeneous throughout the gradient.
This : This could reflect the binding of annexin A7 to membrane subdomains that have different lipid or lipid/protein composition as discussed by Salzer et al. [7].
26
the gradient : The distribution was however not homogeneous throughout the gradient.
the gradient : Likewise, sorcin does not exhibit a homogeneous distribution in the gradient.
27
sorcin : Likewise, sorcin does not exhibit a homogeneous distribution in the gradient.
it : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
28
Fig. 3 : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
Figure 3 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
29
a self forming iodixanol density gradient : Lysed human red blood cells were added to a self forming iodixanol density gradient.
the gradient : The density of the gradient increases from left (1.06 g/ml) to right (1.20 g/ml).
30
the cells : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
the anxA7-/-red blood cells : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
They : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
they : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
The mice : The mice were killed by cervical dislocation in order to avoid any effect of anaesthetic chemicals on blood parameters.
31
Fig. 4 : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
Figure 4 : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
32
a red blood cell : Shape and MCV of a red blood cell essentially influence its function and capillary passage.
its : Shape and MCV of a red blood cell essentially influence its function and capillary passage.
33
The osmotic resistance, which is the resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength : The osmotic resistance, which is the resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength, is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
It : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
34
Red blood cells which lack the ability to vesiculate : Red blood cells which lack the ability to vesiculate cause a disease with red blood cell destruction and haemoglobinuria [21].
the knock out cells : The resistance width of the knock out cells is slightly lower (0.20 % instead of 0.25 % NaCl solution).
35
the red blood cells : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
their : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
36
micropipette experiments : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
these experiments : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
the osmotic resistance experiments : However, the distinction observed in the osmotic resistance experiments was highly significant and reflects a mean value over a high number of different red blood cells.
37
Salzer : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
M. Heil : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
the authors : Human blood samples from the authors were collected by vein puncture using common EDTA-monovettes (Sarstedt).  
Born : The platelet aggregation measurements were done according to the method developed by Born and Cross [26] using an APACT photometer (Labor, Ahrendsburg, FRG) and the APACT software (APACT 1.4).
M. Heil : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
38
Herr : The null strain reported by Herr et al. [17] is viable, healthy, and shows no insulin secretion defect or other obvious defects.
B. Hoffmann : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
39
its partner sorcin : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
R. Merkel : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
40
The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength : The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
It : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to the one of wild type (p = 0.00066; n = 8).  
41
annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to the one of wild type (p = 0.00066; n = 8).  
42
Two binding partners of annexin A7 : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
These data : These data suggest that annexin A7 contributes to the shape of red blood cells and the osmotic resistance.
43
analysed : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
these tests of whole blood : In these tests of whole blood we found only a change in the platelet numbers, whereas all other haematological parameters were not affected.
44
the solution : In vitro the activated cells form aggregates recruiting additional cells in the solution thereby reducing its cloudiness.
its : In vitro the activated cells form aggregates recruiting additional cells in the solution thereby reducing its cloudiness.
45
aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
both curves : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
the curves : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
Both murine curves : Both murine curves differ significantly at a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation, the mutant shows a slightly lower aggregation velocity (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15, mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission, mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission, standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission, standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission).
46
Fig. 5 : 50 % haemolysis is achieved at 0.516 % NaCl solution for knock out versus 0.564 % NaCl for wild type cells (mean values, p = 0.00066, n = 8; Fig. 5).
Figure 6 : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
47
a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
von Willebrand syndrome : For comparison of the range of the platelet impairment slightly affected human platelets are shown as well (von Willebrand syndrome).  Discussion
48
the 47 kDa isoform : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
its : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
49
the 51 kDa isoform : We have now extended these findings and show here that the 51 kDa isoform is present as well.
binding partner : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
sorcin : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
B. Hoffmann : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
50
the 51 kDa isoform : We showed the presence of the 51 kDa isoform as well, adding red blood cells to the list of cells that harbor this isoform.
this isoform : We showed the presence of the 51 kDa isoform as well, adding red blood cells to the list of cells that harbor this isoform.
51
Salzer et al. [7 : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
they : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
52
Raft domains in general : Raft domains in general are considered key players in membrane organization and in mediating the vesiculation process.
They : They result from the clustering of sphingolipids and cholesterol in the outer leaflet of the membrane connected to phospholipids and cholesterol in the inner leaflet and are enriched in special proteins.
53
Caohuy et al : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
they : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
54
GTP : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
GTP : Similarly, the presence of GTP enhanced the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7.
55
the amount of sorcin : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
its : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
56
the plasma membrane : The structural basis for the elasticy of red blood cells in circulation are long range molecular functions of the plasma membrane and the membrane associated part of the cytoskeleton [40-43].
the membrane skeleton : Major constituents of the membrane skeleton are spectrin tetramers linked together by short actin filaments and several other proteins covering the entire cytoplasmic surface of the red blood cell membrane [44].
57
both annexin A7 isoforms : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
they : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
The proteins : The proteins are however not required for the vesiculation process.
They : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
58
The observed cell shape change of erythrocytes lacking annexin A7 : The observed cell shape change of erythrocytes lacking annexin A7 might be due to alterations in the erythrocyte cytoskeleton.
this effect : As a direct interaction with F-actin was ruled out, this effect might be mediated by annexin's Ca2+-binding activity.
59
mutant mice : The wild type and mutant mice were matched regarding their age, weight and sex.
their : The wild type and mutant mice were matched regarding their age, weight and sex.
60
self forming iodixanol density gradients : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
our studies : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
61
A 50 % iodixanol solution : A 50 % iodixanol solution was established by mixing Optiprep solution (60 % iodixanol; Sigma) with buffer (120 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 1.2 mM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose).
this 50 % iodixanol solution : Seven parts of this 50 % iodixanol solution were mixed with thirteen parts of the red blood cell solution, generating a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol.
The mixture : The mixture was filled into a centrifuge tube underlayed by cushions of 30 % and 35 % iodixanol and centrifuged for 3 hours at 270,000 × g in a SW41 Ti swing out rotor (Beckman) to achieve a nearly linear density gradient (approximately 1.06 g/ml to 1.20 g/ml) [24].
62
120 mM Hepes : A 50 % iodixanol solution was established by mixing Optiprep solution (60 % iodixanol; Sigma) with buffer (120 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 1.2 mM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose).
20 mM Hepes : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
20 mM Hepes : A volume of 500 μl washed red blood cells were combined with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 adjusted to 5 μM Ca2+ ionophore A23187) and incubated for 30 minutes at 37°C.
63
the 15,000 × g step : The supernatant of the 15,000 × g step was further centrifuged for 60 minutes at 100,000 × g and 4°C.
this step : The final pellet of this step was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 15,000 × g again to purify a supernatant enriched in nanovesicles according to [7,20].
64
 Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
this assay : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
the assay : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
the assay : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
65
platelet rich plasma (PRP : The resulting supernatants were transferred to new tubes and used as platelet rich plasma (PRP).
the PRP : Subsequently samples of the PRP were adjusted with buffer (5 mM Hepes, 150 mM NaCl, pH 7.3) to 250,000 platelets/μl.
66
an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
this equipment : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
67
red blood cells and platelets : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
their : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
68
the results : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the results : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
69
the sorcin studies : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the studies : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
its : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
70
the manuscript : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the manuscript : All authors read and approved the manuscript.
71
Bayer : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
the ZMMK : Mass spectrometric analysis was performed in the central service facilities of the ZMMK.
the ZMMK (Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne) : This worked is supported by a grant from the ZMMK (Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne).
72
Mass spectrometric analysis : Mass spectrometric analysis was performed in the central service facilities of the ZMMK.
This : This worked is supported by a grant from the ZMMK (Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne).
