node_0
expression : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
expression : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
node_2
annexin A7 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
annexin A7 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
Annexin A7 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
annexin A7 : The role of annexin A7 in red blood cells was addressed in erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice.
annexin A7 : Instead, lack of annexin A7 led to an altered cell shape and increased osmotic resistance of red blood cells.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 was also identified in platelets.
its : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
annexin A7 : The results appear to rule out an important role of annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes occurring in red blood cells.
the protein : Instead the protein might be involved in the organization of the membrane cytoskeleton.
annexin A7 : Red blood cells may represent an appropriate model to study the role of annexin A7 in cellular processes.
annexin A7 : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
annexin A7 : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
annexin A7 : The defects observed are however not compatible with a crucial role for annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes in these cell types.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+ : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
annexin A7 : This activity led to the proposal of annexin A7's involvement in the exocytotic secretion of catecholamines [1].
The protein : The protein belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins of a bipartite structure with a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal domain.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 is unique in that it carries an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids.
it : Annexin A7 is unique in that it carries an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids.
annexin A7 : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 translocates to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent fashion and, when intracellular Ca2+ levels rise, sequentially redistributes to the plasma and the nuclear membrane as well as to intracellular vesicles.
annexin A7 : Furthermore, annexin A7 associates with lipid rafts [7].
annexin A7 : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
annexin A7 : Like annexin A7 it binds to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
annexin A7 : Sorcin and annexin A7 are coexpressed in all tissues examined so far [11].
annexin A7 : The binding of annexin A7 and sorcin is Ca2+-dependent and occurs at micromolar Ca2+ concentrations.
annexin A7 : The binding sites have been localised to the amino terminal GGYY and GYGG motifs in sorcin and to the GYPP motif in the amino terminus of annexin A7.
annexin A7 molecule : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
annexin A7 : Down regulation of annexin A7 prevents galectin-3 translocation to the perinuclear membrane and increases galectin-3 secretion.
annexin A7 : For annexin A7 a role for galectin-3 trafficking, apoptosis regulation, and mitochondrial integrity was proposed [13].  
annexin A7 : The cellular role of annexin A7 is not well understood.
It : It is thought to regulate and stabilize membrane domains and to have a role in Ca2+ homeostasis and Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways.
annexin A7 : These proposals are supported by data obtained from analysis of annexin A7 deficient mouse mutants.
annexin A7 : Two annexin A7 129Sv null mice strains were generated independently using a different strategy.
annexin A7 : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
annexin A7 : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
annexin A7 : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
annexin A7 : Figure 1  Expression of annexin A7 in human red blood cells (1) and human platelets (2).
Its : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
annexin A7 : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
annexin A7 : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
annexin A7 : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
it : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
annexin A7 : It appears that annexin A7, although it has been described to fuse membranes, is not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles.
it : It appears that annexin A7, although it has been described to fuse membranes, is not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles.
annexin A7 : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
annexin A7 : In general, annexin A7 and sorcin are more abundant in nanovesicles.
annexin A7 : The 51 kDa isoform of annexin A7 (arrows) is only observed in nanovesicles.
annexin A7 : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
annexin A7 : This could reflect the binding of annexin A7 to membrane subdomains that have different lipid or lipid/protein composition as discussed by Salzer et al. [7].
annexin A7 : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
annexin A7 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
annexin A7 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
the protein :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 : The typical biconcave form depends on various influences including the membrane lipid composition and the submembranous cytoskeleton [32] where annexin A7 might play a role.
annexin A7 : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
annexin A7 : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
annexin A7 : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to the one of wild type (p = 0.00066; n = 8).  
annexin A7 : These data suggest that annexin A7 contributes to the shape of red blood cells and the osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
it : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 affects primary haemostasis ex vivo  
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 deficient platelets showed a slightly lowered aggregation velocity.
annexin A7 : Platelet aggregation curves from platelet rich plasma of annexin A7 knock out and wild type mice.
Annexin A7 :  Annexin A7 is thought to have a role in vesicle fusion and in regulating and stabilizing membrane domains [1].
The protein : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
it : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
it : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
annexin A7 : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
its : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
annexin A7 : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
annexin A7 : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
annexin A7 : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
annexin A7 : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
annexin A7 : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
annexin A7 : Similarly, the presence of GTP enhanced the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7.
annexin A7 : These results were thought to support a direct role for annexin A7 in surfactant secretion, but in these studies annexin A7 mediated membrane fusion was separated from a second GTP-dependent mechanism [38].
annexin A7 : These results were thought to support a direct role for annexin A7 in surfactant secretion, but in these studies annexin A7 mediated membrane fusion was separated from a second GTP-dependent mechanism [38].
annexin A7 :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
annexin A7 :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
annexin A7 : It might well be that the observed fusion of phospholipid layers by annexin A7 in the presence of high Ca2+ concentrations may turn out to be an in vitro effect.
annexin A7 : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
annexin A7 : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
annexin A7 : Furthermore, the distribution of both annexin A7 isoforms in gradients of red blood cells indicates a function which differs from organizing subcellular membranes or membrane pathways.
annexin A7 : Whereas annexin A2 is tightly associated with endosomes and may have functions in membrane fusion and the endosomal pathway, annexin A7 distributes with plasma membrane raft domains of different types and densities.
annexin A7 : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
annexin A7 : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
annexin A7 :  Having excluded a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion, annexin A7 might act by its property as Ca2+-binding protein [17].
its :  Having excluded a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion, annexin A7 might act by its property as Ca2+-binding protein [17].
annexin A7 : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
annexin A7 : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
it : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
annexin A7 : However, so far no other members of the annexin family, which may substitute for annexin A7, have been described in red blood cells.
Annexin A7 : Membrane cholesterol diminishes red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex, whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogates association of all raft proteins with no significant effect on areas in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [45,46].  Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells show a more flat shape and have a higher osmotic resistance.
annexin A7 : The presence of annexin A7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it supports the typical biconcave membrane shape and leads to a lower minimal osmotic resistance.
it : The presence of annexin A7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it supports the typical biconcave membrane shape and leads to a lower minimal osmotic resistance.
Annexin A7 : Annexin A7 does not appear to have an influence on plasma membrane integrity itself as the maximal osmotic resistance value stays constant.
itself : Annexin A7 does not appear to have an influence on plasma membrane integrity itself as the maximal osmotic resistance value stays constant.
annexin A7 : Annexins have been reported to bind directly to F-actin, we could however exclude such an activity for annexin A7.
it : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
annexin A7 : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
annexin A7 : We have also observed a defect in platelet function in the annexin A7 mutant.
annexin A7 : In the platelet aggregation experiments the initial aggregation velocity was slightly, but significantly lower in platelets lacking annexin A7.
annexin A7 : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
annexin A7 : The observed cell shape change of erythrocytes lacking annexin A7 might be due to alterations in the erythrocyte cytoskeleton.
annexin A7 : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
annexin A7 : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
node_4
platelets : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
platelets : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
platelets : Annexin A7 was also identified in platelets.
these cells : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
platelets : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
platelets : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
platelets : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
platelets : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
platelets : Both isoforms are detected in red blood cells, in platelets only the small isoform is present.
platelets : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
platelets : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
platelet : In these tests of whole blood we found only a change in the platelet numbers, whereas all other haematological parameters were not affected.
platelet : The mean platelet counts from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice are determined as 674 × 103/μl and 774 × 103/μl, respectively.
platelet : The platelet counts in knock out mice are significantly higher (p = 0.0275; n knock out = 11, n wild type = 14).
platelet : An increase in platelet counts is a rather uncommon disorder.
platelet : In humans, platelet counts normally increase only transiently as in reactive thrombocytosis and under postoperative conditions or are largely increased in neoplastic diseases.
platelet : Therefore we tested the platelet function and performed aggregometry measurements with platelet rich plasma.
Platelet : Platelet activation is observed as a morphological change from the resting discoid state to activated spherical cells with pseudopods.
platelet : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
platelet : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
Platelet : Platelet aggregation curves from platelet rich plasma of annexin A7 knock out and wild type mice.
platelet : Constant platelet counts were used throughout all experiments.
platelet : Both murine curves differ significantly at a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation, the mutant shows a slightly lower aggregation velocity (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15, mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission, mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission, standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission, standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission).
platelet : For comparison of the range of the platelet impairment slightly affected human platelets are shown as well (von Willebrand syndrome).  Discussion
platelet : We have also observed a defect in platelet function in the annexin A7 mutant.
platelet : In the platelet aggregation experiments the initial aggregation velocity was slightly, but significantly lower in platelets lacking annexin A7.
platelet : Only in situations with severe physical injury, distinct environmental influences or additional platelet attributes like the platelet antigen polymorphism [53] differences might become apparent.
platelet : Only in situations with severe physical injury, distinct environmental influences or additional platelet attributes like the platelet antigen polymorphism [53] differences might become apparent.
platelet : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
Platelet :  Platelet aggregation assay  
platelet : The platelet aggregation measurements were done according to the method developed by Born and Cross [26] using an APACT photometer (Labor, Ahrendsburg, FRG) and the APACT software (APACT 1.4).
platelet : A constant platelet count was used throughout allowing comparisons between wild type and knock out murine and human samples.
platelet : In general, all platelet procedures were done at 22°C within four hours after collecting the blood sample.
platelets : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
platelets : Therefore number and volume of red blood cells and platelets are not calculated values, but directly measured values.
platelet : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
platelets : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
platelets : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
platelet : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_6
red blood cells : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
red blood cells : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
red blood cells : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
themselves : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
red blood cells : The role of annexin A7 in red blood cells was addressed in erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice.
red blood cells : Instead, lack of annexin A7 led to an altered cell shape and increased osmotic resistance of red blood cells.
red blood cells : The results appear to rule out an important role of annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes occurring in red blood cells.
Red blood cells : Red blood cells may represent an appropriate model to study the role of annexin A7 in cellular processes.
red blood cells : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
red blood cells : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
red blood cells : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
Red blood cells : Red blood cells undergo various biochemical or morphological changes that appear to be Ca2+-dependent processes [18,19].
the red blood cell : This process is thought to represent a protective method of the red blood cell against an attack by for example complement components.
red blood cell : Red blood cells which lack the ability to vesiculate cause a disease with red blood cell destruction and haemoglobinuria [21].
red blood cell : The vesicle formation goes along with several other changes in the red blood cell like cytoskeletal rearrangements and changes in the phospholipid orientation in the cellular membrane.
red blood cells : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
red blood cell : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
red blood cells : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
red blood cells : Both isoforms are detected in red blood cells, in platelets only the small isoform is present.
red blood cell : The quantity of both vesicle types did not differ between wild type and knock out red blood cell vesicles as determined by the AChE-values (A405 nanovesicles: ~0.18; A405 microvesicles: ~0.9; both, for wt and ko).
red blood cell : It appears that annexin A7, although it has been described to fuse membranes, is not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles.
red blood cells : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
red blood cells : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
red blood cells : These membranes are exclusively plasma membranes as red blood cells are free of any organelles.
red blood cell : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
red blood cell :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
red blood cell :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
red blood cell :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
red blood cell : The osmotic resistance, which is the resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength, is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
red blood cell : The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
a red blood cell : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
red blood cells : These data suggest that annexin A7 contributes to the shape of red blood cells and the osmotic resistance.
red blood cells : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
Red blood cells : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
red blood cells : We showed the presence of the 51 kDa isoform as well, adding red blood cells to the list of cells that harbor this isoform.
red blood cells : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
red blood cell :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
red blood cell : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
red blood cells : Furthermore, the distribution of both annexin A7 isoforms in gradients of red blood cells indicates a function which differs from organizing subcellular membranes or membrane pathways.
red blood cell : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
red blood cells : However, so far no other members of the annexin family, which may substitute for annexin A7, have been described in red blood cells.
red blood cell : Major constituents of the membrane skeleton are spectrin tetramers linked together by short actin filaments and several other proteins covering the entire cytoplasmic surface of the red blood cell membrane [44].
red blood cell : Membrane cholesterol diminishes red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex, whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogates association of all raft proteins with no significant effect on areas in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [45,46].  Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells show a more flat shape and have a higher osmotic resistance.
red blood cells : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
its : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
red blood cell : It has been demonstrated that micromolar changes of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration exert a profound effect on the membrane properties that regulate red blood cell deformability [48,49].
red blood cells : Ca2+ also induces a transbilayer phospholipid redistribution inducing a shape change of red blood cells [51].
red blood cells : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
Red blood cells : Red blood cells were centrifuged and washed in isotonic buffered salt solution, collected in ice cold lysis buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 200 μM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose, and proteinase inhibitors (Roche)), homogenized by a loosely fitting dounce homogenizer and additional passages through a 22 gauge needle.
red blood cell : Seven parts of this 50 % iodixanol solution were mixed with thirteen parts of the red blood cell solution, generating a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol.
Red blood cells :  Exovesicle generation from human and murine red blood cells  Red blood cells naturally can form hemoglobin containing exovesicles.
red blood cell : The resulting pellet was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 400 × g again to collect a supernatant enriched with red blood cell microvesicles.
red blood cell : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
red blood cells : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
red blood cells : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
red blood cells : Therefore number and volume of red blood cells and platelets are not calculated values, but directly measured values.
red blood cells : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
the red blood cells : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_8
an annexin A7 mutant mouse : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
an annexin A7 mutant mouse : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
anxA7-/- mice : The role of annexin A7 in red blood cells was addressed in erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice.
the anxA7-/- mutant : Here we have focused on the analysis of red blood cells and platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant.
the annexin A7 knock out mice : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
the anxA7-/-mouse :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
anxA7-/- mutant : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
anxA7-/- mutant mice :  Figure 5  Osmotic resistance curves of red blood cells from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice.
anxA7-/- mutant mice : The mean platelet counts from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice are determined as 674 × 103/μl and 774 × 103/μl, respectively.
knock out mice : The platelet counts in knock out mice are significantly higher (p = 0.0275; n knock out = 11, n wild type = 14).
knock out : The platelet counts in knock out mice are significantly higher (p = 0.0275; n knock out = 11, n wild type = 14).
the anxA7-/-mice : By contrast, the anxA7-/-mice are healthy and viable.
annexin A7 knock out : Platelet aggregation curves from platelet rich plasma of annexin A7 knock out and wild type mice.
the mutant : Both murine curves differ significantly at a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation, the mutant shows a slightly lower aggregation velocity (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15, mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission, mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission, standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission, standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission).
node_10
Background : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
Background : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
Background : Background  
node_13
a 47 and 51 kDa isoform : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
a 47 and 51 kDa isoform : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
both annexin A7 isoforms : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
two isoforms of 47 and 51 kDa : Alternative splicing gives rise to two isoforms of 47 and 51 kDa.
both forms : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
Both isoforms : Both isoforms are detected in red blood cells, in platelets only the small isoform is present.
Both isoforms : Both isoforms were present in the soluble fraction as well as in the gradient fractions where they are assumed to be associated with membranes.
they : Both isoforms were present in the soluble fraction as well as in the gradient fractions where they are assumed to be associated with membranes.
the two isoforms : In specialized or terminally differentiated cells, expression levels increase and frequently the larger of the two isoforms is being expressed [6,34,35].  
both annexin A7 isoforms : Furthermore, the distribution of both annexin A7 isoforms in gradients of red blood cells indicates a function which differs from organizing subcellular membranes or membrane pathways.
both annexin A7 isoforms : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
they : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
node_14
a 47 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
a 47 : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
the 47 kDa isoform : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
it : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
the small isoform : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
only the 47 kDa isoform : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the 47 kDa isoform : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
its : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
the 47 : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
The 47 kDa isoform : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
its : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
only the small isoform : Both isoforms are detected in red blood cells, in platelets only the small isoform is present.
the 47 kDa isoform : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
node_17
51 kDa isoform : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
51 kDa isoform : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
the large isoform : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the 51 kDa isoform : We have now extended these findings and show here that the 51 kDa isoform is present as well.
51 kDa isoforms : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
The 51 kDa isoform : The 51 kDa isoform was only detected in western blots.
The 51 kDa isoform : The 51 kDa isoform is only detectable in nanovesicles.
The 51 kDa isoform of annexin A7 : The 51 kDa isoform of annexin A7 (arrows) is only observed in nanovesicles.
the larger of the two isoforms : In specialized or terminally differentiated cells, expression levels increase and frequently the larger of the two isoforms is being expressed [6,34,35].  
the 51 kDa isoform : We showed the presence of the 51 kDa isoform as well, adding red blood cells to the list of cells that harbor this isoform.
this isoform : We showed the presence of the 51 kDa isoform as well, adding red blood cells to the list of cells that harbor this isoform.
node_19
membrane : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
membrane : Function, expression and localization of annexin A7 in platelets and red blood cells: Insights derived from an annexin A7 mutant mouse  Abstract  Background  Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein expressed as a 47 and 51 kDa isoform, which is thought to be involved in membrane fusion processes.
membrane : Also, the membrane organization appeared not to be disturbed as assessed using gradient fractionation studies.
membrane : The results appear to rule out an important role of annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes occurring in red blood cells.
membrane : Instead the protein might be involved in the organization of the membrane cytoskeleton.
membrane : The defects observed are however not compatible with a crucial role for annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes in these cell types.
membranes : Annexin A7 translocates to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent fashion and, when intracellular Ca2+ levels rise, sequentially redistributes to the plasma and the nuclear membrane as well as to intracellular vesicles.
membrane : Lipid rafts play a key role in membrane budding and in vesiculation processes such as endo- and exocytosis [8-10].  
membranes : Like annexin A7 it binds to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
membrane : It is thought to regulate and stabilize membrane domains and to have a role in Ca2+ homeostasis and Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways.
membrane : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
membrane : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
membranes : It appears that annexin A7, although it has been described to fuse membranes, is not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles.
membranes : Both isoforms were present in the soluble fraction as well as in the gradient fractions where they are assumed to be associated with membranes.
These membranes : These membranes are exclusively plasma membranes as red blood cells are free of any organelles.
membrane : This could reflect the binding of annexin A7 to membrane subdomains that have different lipid or lipid/protein composition as discussed by Salzer et al. [7].
membrane : The typical biconcave form depends on various influences including the membrane lipid composition and the submembranous cytoskeleton [32] where annexin A7 might play a role.
membrane : Similar properties can be observed in red blood cells with lowered membrane permeability.
membrane : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
membrane : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
membrane : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
membrane :  Annexin A7 is thought to have a role in vesicle fusion and in regulating and stabilizing membrane domains [1].
membrane : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
membrane : Raft domains in general are considered key players in membrane organization and in mediating the vesiculation process.
the membrane : They result from the clustering of sphingolipids and cholesterol in the outer leaflet of the membrane connected to phospholipids and cholesterol in the inner leaflet and are enriched in special proteins.
membrane : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
membrane : These results were thought to support a direct role for annexin A7 in surfactant secretion, but in these studies annexin A7 mediated membrane fusion was separated from a second GTP-dependent mechanism [38].
membrane : Likewise, Dictyostelium discoideum cells, in which the single annexin gene was inactivated, were not impaired in processes requiring membrane fusion [[39]; and data unpublished].
membrane : Furthermore, the distribution of both annexin A7 isoforms in gradients of red blood cells indicates a function which differs from organizing subcellular membranes or membrane pathways.
membrane : Whereas annexin A2 is tightly associated with endosomes and may have functions in membrane fusion and the endosomal pathway, annexin A7 distributes with plasma membrane raft domains of different types and densities.
membrane :  Having excluded a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion, annexin A7 might act by its property as Ca2+-binding protein [17].
membrane : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
membrane : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
membrane : The structural basis for the elasticy of red blood cells in circulation are long range molecular functions of the plasma membrane and the membrane associated part of the cytoskeleton [40-43].
membrane : Major constituents of the membrane skeleton are spectrin tetramers linked together by short actin filaments and several other proteins covering the entire cytoplasmic surface of the red blood cell membrane [44].
Membrane : Membrane cholesterol diminishes red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex, whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogates association of all raft proteins with no significant effect on areas in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [45,46].  Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells show a more flat shape and have a higher osmotic resistance.
membrane : The presence of annexin A7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it supports the typical biconcave membrane shape and leads to a lower minimal osmotic resistance.
membrane : The presence of annexin A7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it supports the typical biconcave membrane shape and leads to a lower minimal osmotic resistance.
membrane : Ca2+ and membrane skeletal proteins are known to play key roles on the red blood cell membrane shape and stability [47].
membrane : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
membrane : It has been demonstrated that micromolar changes of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration exert a profound effect on the membrane properties that regulate red blood cell deformability [48,49].
membrane : Furthermore, the intracellular Ca2+ was shown to regulate the membrane stability through modulation of cytoskeletal protein interactions [50].
membrane : In addition, Ca2+ ions can drive spiculation of the membrane bilayer without involving the cytoskeleton [52].  
membrane : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
node_22
erythrocytes : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
erythrocytes : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
The erythrocytes : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
node_25
the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
the Ca2+-mediated vesiculation process : Interestingly, the Ca2+-mediated vesiculation process was not impaired.
fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+ : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
This activity : This activity led to the proposal of annexin A7's involvement in the exocytotic secretion of catecholamines [1].
node_26
the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
node_31
complement components : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
complement components : Recently the 47 kDa isoform has been identified in erythrocytes where it was proposed to be a key component in the process of the Ca2+-dependent vesicle release, a process with which red blood cells might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement components.
complement components : This process is thought to represent a protective method of the red blood cell against an attack by for example complement components.
node_33
Results :  Results  
Results :  Results  
The results : The results appear to rule out an important role of annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes occurring in red blood cells.
Results :  Results  
the results : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the results : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_37
erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice : The role of annexin A7 in red blood cells was addressed in erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice.
erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice : The role of annexin A7 in red blood cells was addressed in erythrocytes from anxA7-/- mice.
red blood cells : Here we have focused on the analysis of red blood cells and platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant.
red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
red blood cells from :  Figure 5  Osmotic resistance curves of red blood cells from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice.
Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells : Membrane cholesterol diminishes red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex, whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogates association of all raft proteins with no significant effect on areas in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [45,46].  Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells show a more flat shape and have a higher osmotic resistance.
red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
node_41
the membrane organization : Also, the membrane organization appeared not to be disturbed as assessed using gradient fractionation studies.
the membrane organization : Also, the membrane organization appeared not to be disturbed as assessed using gradient fractionation studies.
membrane organization : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
membrane organization : Raft domains in general are considered key players in membrane organization and in mediating the vesiculation process.
membrane organization : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
node_44
gradient : Also, the membrane organization appeared not to be disturbed as assessed using gradient fractionation studies.
gradient : Also, the membrane organization appeared not to be disturbed as assessed using gradient fractionation studies.
gradient : Both isoforms were present in the soluble fraction as well as in the gradient fractions where they are assumed to be associated with membranes.
gradient : Seven parts of this 50 % iodixanol solution were mixed with thirteen parts of the red blood cell solution, generating a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol.
gradient : For each step 5 ml of the gradient step solution and 50 μl blood sample were carefully inverted four times and incubated for 30 minutes in the dark.
node_46
gradient fractionation : Also, the membrane organization appeared not to be disturbed as assessed using gradient fractionation studies.
gradient fractionation : Also, the membrane organization appeared not to be disturbed as assessed using gradient fractionation studies.
the fractionation studies : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_48
lack of annexin A7 : Instead, lack of annexin A7 led to an altered cell shape and increased osmotic resistance of red blood cells.
lack of annexin A7 : Instead, lack of annexin A7 led to an altered cell shape and increased osmotic resistance of red blood cells.
The lack of annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
The lack of annexin A7 :  The lack of annexin A7 affects primary haemostasis ex vivo  
node_51
cell : Instead, lack of annexin A7 led to an altered cell shape and increased osmotic resistance of red blood cells.
cell : Instead, lack of annexin A7 led to an altered cell shape and increased osmotic resistance of red blood cells.
cell : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
cell : The defects observed are however not compatible with a crucial role for annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes in these cell types.
cell : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
cell : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
cell : This distribution appears to be independent of the tissue or cell type analysed.
cell : The observed cell shape change of erythrocytes lacking annexin A7 might be due to alterations in the erythrocyte cytoskeleton.
cell : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
cell : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
node_58
its loss : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
its loss : In these cells its loss led to a slightly slower aggregation velocity which seems to be compensated by an increased number of platelets.
the loss of annexin A7 : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
the loss of the protein :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
the loss of annexin A7 : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
node_66
the membrane cytoskeleton : Instead the protein might be involved in the organization of the membrane cytoskeleton.
the membrane cytoskeleton : Instead the protein might be involved in the organization of the membrane cytoskeleton.
the membrane associated part of the cytoskeleton : The structural basis for the elasticy of red blood cells in circulation are long range molecular functions of the plasma membrane and the membrane associated part of the cytoskeleton [40-43].
the membrane skeleton : Major constituents of the membrane skeleton are spectrin tetramers linked together by short actin filaments and several other proteins covering the entire cytoplasmic surface of the red blood cell membrane [44].
the membrane cytoskeleton : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
node_70
the role of annexin A7 in cellular processes : Red blood cells may represent an appropriate model to study the role of annexin A7 in cellular processes.
the role of annexin A7 in cellular processes : Red blood cells may represent an appropriate model to study the role of annexin A7 in cellular processes.
The cellular role of annexin A7 : The cellular role of annexin A7 is not well understood.
node_73
Conclusion : Conclusion  
Conclusion : Conclusion  
Conclusions : Conclusions  
node_75
We : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
We : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
we : Here we have focused on the analysis of red blood cells and platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant.
We : We have now extended these findings and show here that the 51 kDa isoform is present as well.
we : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
we : Because of better accessibility and larger available amounts that led to clear results, we included our data obtained with human blood.
our : Because of better accessibility and larger available amounts that led to clear results, we included our data obtained with human blood.
we : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
we : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
we : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
We : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
we :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
we : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
We : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
we : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
We : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
we : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
us : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
We : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
we : In these tests of whole blood we found only a change in the platelet numbers, whereas all other haematological parameters were not affected.
we : Therefore we tested the platelet function and performed aggregometry measurements with platelet rich plasma.
we : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
we : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
our : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
we : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
We : We showed the presence of the 51 kDa isoform as well, adding red blood cells to the list of cells that harbor this isoform.
we :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
Our : Our data suggest that the efficiency of micro- and nanovesicle formation is not significantly different in wild type and mutant red blood cells.
we : Annexins have been reported to bind directly to F-actin, we could however exclude such an activity for annexin A7.
We : We have also observed a defect in platelet function in the annexin A7 mutant.
we : However the reaction speed of murine platelets is much higher than those of human and due to the technical setup we might have missed larger changes in the mouse samples.
we : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
We : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
our : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
our : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
We : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
node_77
the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells : We have demonstrated the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells and the presence of the small isoform in platelets.
the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
node_84
both cell types : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
both cell types : In both cell types the loss of annexin A7 impairs cellular functions.
these cell types : The defects observed are however not compatible with a crucial role for annexin A7 in membrane fusion processes in these cell types.
their : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
node_96
chromaffin : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
chromaffin : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
chromaffin : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
node_99
phospholipid : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
phospholipid : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
phospholipid : The vesicle formation goes along with several other changes in the red blood cell like cytoskeletal rearrangements and changes in the phospholipid orientation in the cellular membrane.
phospholipids : They result from the clustering of sphingolipids and cholesterol in the outer leaflet of the membrane connected to phospholipids and cholesterol in the inner leaflet and are enriched in special proteins.
phospholipid : It might well be that the observed fusion of phospholipid layers by annexin A7 in the presence of high Ca2+ concentrations may turn out to be an in vitro effect.
phospholipid : Ca2+ also induces a transbilayer phospholipid redistribution inducing a shape change of red blood cells [51].
node_101
phospholipid membranes : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
phospholipid membranes : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
the plasma membrane : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the plasma : Annexin A7 translocates to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent fashion and, when intracellular Ca2+ levels rise, sequentially redistributes to the plasma and the nuclear membrane as well as to intracellular vesicles.
the cellular membrane : The vesicle formation goes along with several other changes in the red blood cell like cytoskeletal rearrangements and changes in the phospholipid orientation in the cellular membrane.
exclusively plasma membranes : These membranes are exclusively plasma membranes as red blood cells are free of any organelles.
the plasma membrane : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
plasma membrane : Whereas annexin A2 is tightly associated with endosomes and may have functions in membrane fusion and the endosomal pathway, annexin A7 distributes with plasma membrane raft domains of different types and densities.
the plasma membrane : The structural basis for the elasticy of red blood cells in circulation are long range molecular functions of the plasma membrane and the membrane associated part of the cytoskeleton [40-43].
plasma membrane : Annexin A7 does not appear to have an influence on plasma membrane integrity itself as the maximal osmotic resistance value stays constant.
node_103
Ca2+ : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
Ca2+ : Annexin A7 is a Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding protein, which was isolated as the agent that mediated aggregation of chromaffin granules and fusion of phospholipid membranes in the presence of Ca2+.
Ca2+ ions : The binding to negatively charged phospholipids is thought to be mediated by Ca2+ ions.
Ca2+ : Annexin A7 translocates to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent fashion and, when intracellular Ca2+ levels rise, sequentially redistributes to the plasma and the nuclear membrane as well as to intracellular vesicles.
Ca2+ : The binding of annexin A7 and sorcin is Ca2+-dependent and occurs at micromolar Ca2+ concentrations.
Ca2+ : It is thought to regulate and stabilize membrane domains and to have a role in Ca2+ homeostasis and Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways.
Ca2+ : It might well be that the observed fusion of phospholipid layers by annexin A7 in the presence of high Ca2+ concentrations may turn out to be an in vitro effect.
Ca2+ : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
Ca2+ : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
Ca2+ : Ca2+ and membrane skeletal proteins are known to play key roles on the red blood cell membrane shape and stability [47].
Ca2+ : Nevertheless it might interact with other components and have a role in organizing the membrane cytoskeleton, controlling raft protein associations or influencing the ionic strength of red blood cells on its own or by interfering with other signaling pathways.  As discussed above annexin A7 could be involved in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ homeostasis.
Ca2+ : It has been demonstrated that micromolar changes of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration exert a profound effect on the membrane properties that regulate red blood cell deformability [48,49].
Ca2+ : Ca2+ also induces a transbilayer phospholipid redistribution inducing a shape change of red blood cells [51].
Ca2+ ions : In addition, Ca2+ ions can drive spiculation of the membrane bilayer without involving the cytoskeleton [52].  
Ca2+ : In this paper we report the presence of both annexin A7 isoforms in red blood cells where they are abundant in nanovesicles that form upon Ca2+ addition.
Ca2+ : In vitro these vesicle formation is Ca2+ induced.
node_108
a variable N-terminal : The protein belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins of a bipartite structure with a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal domain.
a variable N-terminal : The protein belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins of a bipartite structure with a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal domain.
the N-terminal domain : The C-terminal domain is responsible for the Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding, the N-terminal domain appears to confer functional diversity [2-4].
the N-terminal domain : Both isoforms differ by an additional cassette exon located in the first third of the N-terminal domain.
node_110
a conserved C-terminal domain : The protein belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins of a bipartite structure with a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal domain.
a conserved C-terminal domain : The protein belongs to a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins of a bipartite structure with a variable N-terminal and a conserved C-terminal domain.
The C-terminal domain : The C-terminal domain is responsible for the Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding, the N-terminal domain appears to confer functional diversity [2-4].
node_113
phospholipid-binding : The C-terminal domain is responsible for the Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding, the N-terminal domain appears to confer functional diversity [2-4].
phospholipid-binding : The C-terminal domain is responsible for the Ca2+- and phospholipid-binding, the N-terminal domain appears to confer functional diversity [2-4].
The binding to negatively charged phospholipids : The binding to negatively charged phospholipids is thought to be mediated by Ca2+ ions.
node_120
an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids : Annexin A7 is unique in that it carries an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids.
an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids : Annexin A7 is unique in that it carries an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acids.
the amino terminus of annexin A7 : The binding sites have been localised to the amino terminal GGYY and GYGG motifs in sorcin and to the GYPP motif in the amino terminus of annexin A7.
node_127
heart : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
heart : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
heart : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
node_131
the cytosol : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the cytosol : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the cytosol : The protein has been localized to the plasma membrane including raft subdomains, furthermore it is present in the cytosol where it is found on subcellular vesicle-like structures.
node_134
the nucleus : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the nucleus : Most tissues harbor only the 47 kDa isoform, both forms are found in brain and heart, while the large isoform is exclusively expressed in mature skeletal muscle.  At the cellular level annexin A7 can be detected in the cytosol, at the plasma membrane, around the nucleus, at vesicular structures including adrenal chromaffin granules, and at the t-tubule system [5,6].
the nucleus : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
node_143
lipid rafts : Furthermore, annexin A7 associates with lipid rafts [7].
lipid rafts : Furthermore, annexin A7 associates with lipid rafts [7].
Lipid rafts : Lipid rafts play a key role in membrane budding and in vesiculation processes such as endo- and exocytosis [8-10].  
lipid raft : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
the lipid rafts : Furthermore, they contain sorcin and annexin A7 attached to the lipid rafts.
membrane rafts : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
rafts : Biochemically rafts are defined as membranes that are resistant to extraction by cold Triton X-100 and can be floated to low densities in sucrose gradient centrifugation [36].  
node_147
vesiculation processes : Lipid rafts play a key role in membrane budding and in vesiculation processes such as endo- and exocytosis [8-10].  
vesiculation processes : Lipid rafts play a key role in membrane budding and in vesiculation processes such as endo- and exocytosis [8-10].  
the vesiculation process : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
the vesiculation process : Raft domains in general are considered key players in membrane organization and in mediating the vesiculation process.
vesiculation : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
the vesiculation process : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
the vesiculation process : The proteins are however not required for the vesiculation process.
vesiculation : A volume of 500 μl washed red blood cells were combined with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 adjusted to 5 μM Ca2+ ionophore A23187) and incubated for 30 minutes at 37°C.
node_150
sorcin : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
sorcin : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
Sorcin : Sorcin is a Ca2+-binding protein and belongs to the penta EF-hand protein family [14].
it : Like annexin A7 it binds to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
Sorcin : Sorcin also has been described as interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor, and appears to modulate its function [15].
Sorcin : Sorcin and annexin A7 are coexpressed in all tissues examined so far [11].
sorcin : The binding of annexin A7 and sorcin is Ca2+-dependent and occurs at micromolar Ca2+ concentrations.
sorcin : The binding sites have been localised to the amino terminal GGYY and GYGG motifs in sorcin and to the GYPP motif in the amino terminus of annexin A7.
sorcin : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
sorcin : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
sorcin : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
sorcin : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
sorcin : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
sorcin : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
sorcin : In general, annexin A7 and sorcin are more abundant in nanovesicles.
sorcin : Likewise, sorcin does not exhibit a homogeneous distribution in the gradient.
it : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
sorcin : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
sorcin : Fractions were analysed by immunoblotting using mAb 203–217 and the sorcin polyclonal antibody.
sorcin : Red blood cells, which were thought to be devoid of annexin A7, were recently shown to harbor the 47 kDa isoform together with its binding partner sorcin [7].
sorcin : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
sorcin : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
its : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
its : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
sorcin : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the protein : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_152
galectin-3 : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
galectin-3 : Two binding partners of annexin A7 have been identified, sorcin and galectin-3 [11-13].
Galectin-3 : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
galectin-3 : Down regulation of annexin A7 prevents galectin-3 translocation to the perinuclear membrane and increases galectin-3 secretion.
galectin-3 : Down regulation of annexin A7 prevents galectin-3 translocation to the perinuclear membrane and increases galectin-3 secretion.
galectin-3 : For annexin A7 a role for galectin-3 trafficking, apoptosis regulation, and mitochondrial integrity was proposed [13].  
node_158
a Ca2+-dependent manner : Like annexin A7 it binds to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
a Ca2+-dependent manner : Like annexin A7 it binds to membranes in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
Ca2+-dependent : The binding of annexin A7 and sorcin is Ca2+-dependent and occurs at micromolar Ca2+ concentrations.
node_161
the ryanodine receptor : Sorcin also has been described as interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor, and appears to modulate its function [15].
the ryanodine receptor : Sorcin also has been described as interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor, and appears to modulate its function [15].
its : Sorcin also has been described as interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor, and appears to modulate its function [15].
the ryanodine receptor : The influence of the sorcin/annexin A7 interaction on the ryanodine receptor is unknown.
node_166
Sorcin and annexin A7 : Sorcin and annexin A7 are coexpressed in all tissues examined so far [11].
Sorcin and annexin A7 : Sorcin and annexin A7 are coexpressed in all tissues examined so far [11].
annexin A7 and sorcin : The binding of annexin A7 and sorcin is Ca2+-dependent and occurs at micromolar Ca2+ concentrations.
The proteins : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
each other : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
Both proteins : Both proteins are more abundant in nanovesicles.
annexin A7 and sorcin : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
annexin A7 and sorcin : In general, annexin A7 and sorcin are more abundant in nanovesicles.
annexin A7 and sorcin : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
annexin A7 and sorcin : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
node_182
an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space : The proteins bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecules per annexin A7 molecule [12].  Galectin-3 is a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity found in the extracellular space, in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondria.
apoptosis regulation : For annexin A7 a role for galectin-3 trafficking, apoptosis regulation, and mitochondrial integrity was proposed [13].  
node_185
tumor : Cytoplasmic galectin-3 correlates with tumor progression and protects mitochondrial integrity.
tumor : Cytoplasmic galectin-3 correlates with tumor progression and protects mitochondrial integrity.
tumor : Heterozygous mice exhibit an insulin secretion defect and tumor phenotypes.
node_187
mitochondrial integrity : Cytoplasmic galectin-3 correlates with tumor progression and protects mitochondrial integrity.
mitochondrial integrity : Cytoplasmic galectin-3 correlates with tumor progression and protects mitochondrial integrity.
mitochondrial integrity : For annexin A7 a role for galectin-3 trafficking, apoptosis regulation, and mitochondrial integrity was proposed [13].  
node_201
Ca2+ homeostasis : It is thought to regulate and stabilize membrane domains and to have a role in Ca2+ homeostasis and Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways.
Ca2+ homeostasis : It is thought to regulate and stabilize membrane domains and to have a role in Ca2+ homeostasis and Ca2+-dependent signaling pathways.
the ion homeostasis : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
node_206
an insulin secretion defect : Heterozygous mice exhibit an insulin secretion defect and tumor phenotypes.
an insulin secretion defect : Heterozygous mice exhibit an insulin secretion defect and tumor phenotypes.
insulin secretion defect : The null strain reported by Herr et al. [17] is viable, healthy, and shows no insulin secretion defect or other obvious defects.
node_208
insulin : Heterozygous mice exhibit an insulin secretion defect and tumor phenotypes.
insulin : Heterozygous mice exhibit an insulin secretion defect and tumor phenotypes.
insulin : The null strain reported by Herr et al. [17] is viable, healthy, and shows no insulin secretion defect or other obvious defects.
node_215
platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant : Here we have focused on the analysis of red blood cells and platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant.
platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant : Here we have focused on the analysis of red blood cells and platelets of the anxA7-/- mutant.
anxA7-/-platelets : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
node_219
red blood cells and platelets : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
red blood cells and platelets : Generally, red blood cells and platelets were thought not to contain annexin A7 and only recently the 47 kDa isoform has been reported as component of red blood cells [7].  
red blood cells and platelets : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
red blood cells and platelets : Therefore number and volume of red blood cells and platelets are not calculated values, but directly measured values.
the red blood cells and platelets : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_226
Ca2+-dependent processes : Red blood cells undergo various biochemical or morphological changes that appear to be Ca2+-dependent processes [18,19].
Ca2+-dependent processes : Red blood cells undergo various biochemical or morphological changes that appear to be Ca2+-dependent processes [18,19].
them : One of them is the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20].
node_229
the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro : One of them is the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20].
the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro : One of them is the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20].
This process : This process is thought to represent a protective method of the red blood cell against an attack by for example complement components.
node_231
hemoglobin-containing exovesicles : One of them is the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20].
hemoglobin-containing exovesicles : One of them is the release of hemoglobin-containing exovesicles occurring in vivo as well as in vitro [7,20].
hemoglobin containing exovesicles :  Exovesicle generation from human and murine red blood cells  Red blood cells naturally can form hemoglobin containing exovesicles.
node_238
two types of vesicles : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
two types of vesicles : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
They : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
they : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
they : Furthermore, they contain sorcin and annexin A7 attached to the lipid rafts.
micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
they : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
micro- and nanovesicles : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
both vesicle types : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
both vesicle types : The quantity of both vesicle types did not differ between wild type and knock out red blood cell vesicles as determined by the AChE-values (A405 nanovesicles: ~0.18; A405 microvesicles: ~0.9; both, for wt and ko).
both vesicles types : Samples of both vesicles types were normalized according to their acetylcholine esterase activity.
their : Samples of both vesicles types were normalized according to their acetylcholine esterase activity.
node_240
vesicles : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
vesicles : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
vesicles : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
node_242
micro : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
micro : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
micro : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
nanovesicles derived from red blood cells : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
micro : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
micro : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
red blood cell microvesicles : The resulting pellet was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 400 × g again to collect a supernatant enriched with red blood cell microvesicles.
node_244
nanovesicles with a size of : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
nanovesicles with a size of : There exist two types of vesicles, micro- and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm, respectively.
nanovesicles : Both proteins are more abundant in nanovesicles.
nanovesicles : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
nanovesicles : The 51 kDa isoform is only detectable in nanovesicles.
nanovesicles : In general, annexin A7 and sorcin are more abundant in nanovesicles.
nanovesicles : The 51 kDa isoform of annexin A7 (arrows) is only observed in nanovesicles.
nanovesicles : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
nanovesicles : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
nanovesicles : The final pellet of this step was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 15,000 × g again to purify a supernatant enriched in nanovesicles according to [7,20].
The vesicles : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
node_247
cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
raft domains : Its presence in vesicles led to the suggestion, that, along with raft domains, annexin A7 plays a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process.
Raft domains : Raft domains in general are considered key players in membrane organization and in mediating the vesiculation process.
They : They result from the clustering of sphingolipids and cholesterol in the outer leaflet of the membrane connected to phospholipids and cholesterol in the inner leaflet and are enriched in special proteins.
node_252
any cytoskeletal protein : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
any cytoskeletal protein : They are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domains that are associated with proteins like acetylcholinesterase, cell surface proteins including a complement receptor, and the lipid raft proteins stomatin and flotillin, but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [7].
membrane skeletal proteins : Ca2+ and membrane skeletal proteins are known to play key roles on the red blood cell membrane shape and stability [47].
node_258
The vesicle formation : The vesicle formation goes along with several other changes in the red blood cell like cytoskeletal rearrangements and changes in the phospholipid orientation in the cellular membrane.
The vesicle formation : The vesicle formation goes along with several other changes in the red blood cell like cytoskeletal rearrangements and changes in the phospholipid orientation in the cellular membrane.
vesicle formation :  Having excluded a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion, annexin A7 might act by its property as Ca2+-binding protein [17].
node_268
red blood cell derived exovesicles : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
red blood cell derived exovesicles : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
exovesicles : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
exovesicles : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
red blood cell exovesicles : It appears that annexin A7, although it has been described to fuse membranes, is not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles.
exovesicles derived from red blood cells : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
exovesicles : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
Exovesicle :  Exovesicle generation from human and murine red blood cells  Red blood cells naturally can form hemoglobin containing exovesicles.
node_271
Salzer et al. : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
Salzer et al. : Annexin A7 expression in red blood cells, red blood cell derived exovesicles and in platelets  Salzer et al. recently reported the presence of the 47 kDa isoform of annexin A7 and its partner sorcin in micro- and nanovesicles derived from red blood cells where they are located in the lumen and are also enriched in membrane rafts [7].
Salzer et al. : This could reflect the binding of annexin A7 to membrane subdomains that have different lipid or lipid/protein composition as discussed by Salzer et al. [7].
Salzer et al. : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
they : Salzer et al. [7] not only demonstrated the presence of annexin A7 in red blood cells, they also showed that annexin A7 and sorcin were enriched in membrane raft domains of nanovesicles formed from red blood cells in vitro.
node_286
western blots of human red blood cells : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
western blots of human red blood cells : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
western blots : The 51 kDa isoform was only detected in western blots.
node_288
human red blood cells : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
human red blood cells : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
human red blood cells : Figure 1  Expression of annexin A7 in human red blood cells (1) and human platelets (2).
Human red blood cells : Human red blood cells (co) were used for control and normalized independently.  
human red blood cells : Lysed human red blood cells were added to a self forming iodixanol density gradient.
human red blood cells : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
human :  Exovesicle generation from human and murine red blood cells  Red blood cells naturally can form hemoglobin containing exovesicles.
node_293
mAb 203–217 : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
mAb 203–217 : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
mAb 203–217 : The resulting western blot was probed with mAb 203–217, visualization was by a secondary peroxidase coupled antibody followed by ECL.
mAb 203–217 : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
mAb 203–217 : Fractions were analysed by immunoblotting using mAb 203–217 and the sorcin polyclonal antibody.
mab 203–217 : Antibodies employed were mab 203–217 directed against mouse annexin A7 core domain [5] and a polyclonal rabbit anti-sorcin antibody [31].
node_295
Fig. : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
Fig. : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
Figure : Figure 1  Expression of annexin A7 in human red blood cells (1) and human platelets (2).
Fig. : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
Fig. : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
Figure : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
Fig. : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
Fig. : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
Figure : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
Fig. : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
Figure : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
Fig. : 50 % haemolysis is achieved at 0.516 % NaCl solution for knock out versus 0.564 % NaCl for wild type cells (mean values, p = 0.00066, n = 8; Fig. 5).
Figure :  Figure 5  Osmotic resistance curves of red blood cells from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice.
Fig. : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
Figure : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
node_297
Fig. 1 : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
Fig. 1 : In western blots of human red blood cells the 47 and 51 kDa isoforms were detected using mAb 203–217 (Fig. 1).
Figure 1 : Figure 1  Expression of annexin A7 in human red blood cells (1) and human platelets (2).
Fig. 1 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
node_302
peptide mass fingerprinting : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
peptide mass fingerprinting : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
Peptide mass fingerprinting :  Peptide mass fingerprinting was performed on a Bruker Reflex IV MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer.
node_304
data : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
data : The 47 kDa isoform was detected in silver stained gels and its identity with annexin A7 confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting (data not shown).
data : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
node_312
human platelets : Figure 1  Expression of annexin A7 in human red blood cells (1) and human platelets (2).
human platelets : Figure 1  Expression of annexin A7 in human red blood cells (1) and human platelets (2).
human platelets : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
human : However the reaction speed of murine platelets is much higher than those of human and due to the technical setup we might have missed larger changes in the mouse samples.
node_314
Protein : Protein homogenates were separated by SDS-PAGE (12 % acrylamide).
Protein : Protein homogenates were separated by SDS-PAGE (12 % acrylamide).
protein : As the annexins belong to a wide spread and evolutionarily conserved protein family, redundant, but not identical functions are expected.
protein : Furthermore, the intracellular Ca2+ was shown to regulate the membrane stability through modulation of cytoskeletal protein interactions [50].
protein : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
node_316
SDS-PAGE : Protein homogenates were separated by SDS-PAGE (12 % acrylamide).
SDS-PAGE : Protein homogenates were separated by SDS-PAGE (12 % acrylamide).
SDS-PAGE : SDS-PAGE and western blotting were done as described [29,30].
node_332
the annexin A7 knock out mice : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
the annexin A7 knock out mice : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
anxA7-/- : To examine this, we analysed the ability of red blood cells derived from the annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) to form exovesicles.
node_343
micro- and nanovesicles : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
micro- and nanovesicles : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
both types of exovesicles : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
node_346
Ca2+/ionophore treatment : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
Ca2+/ionophore treatment : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
Ca2+/ionophore treatment : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
node_348
acetylcholine esterase : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
acetylcholine esterase : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
acetylcholine esterase : Samples of both vesicles types were normalized according to their acetylcholine esterase activity.
acetylcholine esterase : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
Acetylcholine esterase : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
node_350
acetylcholine esterase activity : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
acetylcholine esterase activity : Independent of the presence of annexin A7 both types of exovesicles, micro- and nanovesicles, were released after Ca2+/ionophore treatment as determined by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination.
acetylcholine esterase activity : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
node_357
Fig. 2 : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 : Annexin A7 is present in both vesicle types where it is more enriched in nanovesicles (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
Figure 2 : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
node_375
wild type : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
wild type : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
Vesicles from wild type (wt) : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
node_377
mutant vesicles : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
mutant vesicles : When we probed for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicles we found that the sorcin levels were reduced in the mutant nanovesicles (Fig. 2).  Figure 2  Enrichment of annexin A7 and sorcin in exovesicles derived from red blood cells.
Vesicles from : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
node_392
wild type : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
wild type : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
wt : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
node_395
anxA7-/- mutant : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
anxA7-/- mutant : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
ko : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
node_400
a sorcin polyclonal antibody : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
a sorcin polyclonal antibody : Vesicles from wild type (wt) and anxA7-/- mutant (ko) were generated with Ca2+/ionophore treatment, isolated by differential centrifugation and analysed by immunoblotting with mAb 203–217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody.
the sorcin polyclonal antibody : Fractions were analysed by immunoblotting using mAb 203–217 and the sorcin polyclonal antibody.
node_413
Human red blood cells : Human red blood cells (co) were used for control and normalized independently.  
Human red blood cells : Human red blood cells (co) were used for control and normalized independently.  
co : Human red blood cells (co) were used for control and normalized independently.  
node_419
self forming iodixanol density gradients : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
self forming iodixanol density gradients : To study the distribution of annexin A7 in red blood cells we used self forming iodixanol density gradients.
the gradient : The distribution was however not homogeneous throughout the gradient.
the gradient : Likewise, sorcin does not exhibit a homogeneous distribution in the gradient.
node_437
Fig. 3 : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
Fig. 3 : Moreover, it segregates into vesicles which are not associated with annexin A7 (Fig. 3).
Figure 3 : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
node_451
distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions : We also tested platelets for annexin A7 expression and detected the 47 kDa isoform (Fig. 1).  Figure 3  Association of annexin A7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fractions.
Fractions : Fractions were analysed by immunoblotting using mAb 203–217 and the sorcin polyclonal antibody.
node_455
a self forming iodixanol density gradient : Lysed human red blood cells were added to a self forming iodixanol density gradient.
a self forming iodixanol density gradient : Lysed human red blood cells were added to a self forming iodixanol density gradient.
the gradient : The density of the gradient increases from left (1.06 g/ml) to right (1.20 g/ml).
node_465
red blood cell morphology :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
red blood cell morphology :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
red blood cell morphology :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
their morphology : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
node_467
osmotic resistance :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
osmotic resistance :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
osmotic resistance :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
the osmotic resistance : These data suggest that annexin A7 contributes to the shape of red blood cells and the osmotic resistance.
the osmotic resistance of red blood cells : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
node_471
red blood cell vesicles :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
red blood cell vesicles :  The lack of annexin A7 changes red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance  As annexin A7 is a component of red blood cell vesicles we studied the consequences of the loss of the protein in the anxA7-/-mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance.
red blood cell vesicles :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
red blood cell vesicles : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
node_481
the cells : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
the cells : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
the anxA7-/-red blood cells : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
They : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
node_483
dark field microscopy : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
dark field microscopy : In a standard 'blood smear' we did not note a deformation of the cells, however dark field microscopy revealed changes in shape and diameter of the anxA7-/-red blood cells.
Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
node_488
6.0 μm : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
6.0 μm : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
6.0 μm : The mean cellular diameters are 6.0 μm and 5.7 μm, respectively.
node_490
5.7 μm : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
5.7 μm : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
5.7 μm : The mean cellular diameters are 6.0 μm and 5.7 μm, respectively.
node_493
Fig. 4 : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
Fig. 4 : They had a statistically significant larger cell diameter of 6.0 μm compared to wild type with 5.7 μm (p = 0.015, n = 40), a remarkably lower emphasized central impression and a more flat shape (Fig. 4).
Figure 4 : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
node_495
the mean corpuscular volume : No significant change in the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) was measured with the ADVIA 120 cell counter.
the mean corpuscular volume : No significant change in the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) was measured with the ADVIA 120 cell counter.
MCV : No significant change in the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) was measured with the ADVIA 120 cell counter.
node_498
the ADVIA 120 cell counter : No significant change in the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) was measured with the ADVIA 120 cell counter.
the ADVIA 120 cell counter : No significant change in the mean corpuscular volume (MCV) was measured with the ADVIA 120 cell counter.
ADVIA 120 : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
node_503
red blood cells from : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
red blood cells from : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
red blood cells from wild type :  Figure 5  Osmotic resistance curves of red blood cells from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice.
node_507
wild type mice : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
wild type mice : Figure 4  Dark field microscopy of red blood cells from anxA7-/- mutant (B) and wild type mice (A).
wild type :  Figure 5  Osmotic resistance curves of red blood cells from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice.
wild type : The mean platelet counts from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice are determined as 674 × 103/μl and 774 × 103/μl, respectively.
wild type : The platelet counts in knock out mice are significantly higher (p = 0.0275; n knock out = 11, n wild type = 14).
The wild type : The wild type and mutant mice were matched regarding their age, weight and sex.
node_511
a red blood cell : Shape and MCV of a red blood cell essentially influence its function and capillary passage.
a red blood cell : Shape and MCV of a red blood cell essentially influence its function and capillary passage.
its : Shape and MCV of a red blood cell essentially influence its function and capillary passage.
the cells : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
the red blood cells : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
their : With micropipette experiments we tried to correlate mechanical characteristics of the red blood cells with their morphology.
node_514
The typical biconcave form : The typical biconcave form depends on various influences including the membrane lipid composition and the submembranous cytoskeleton [32] where annexin A7 might play a role.
The typical biconcave form : The typical biconcave form depends on various influences including the membrane lipid composition and the submembranous cytoskeleton [32] where annexin A7 might play a role.
the typical biconcave membrane shape : The presence of annexin A7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it supports the typical biconcave membrane shape and leads to a lower minimal osmotic resistance.
the red blood cell membrane shape : Ca2+ and membrane skeletal proteins are known to play key roles on the red blood cell membrane shape and stability [47].
node_518
The osmotic resistance : The osmotic resistance, which is the resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength, is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
The osmotic resistance : The osmotic resistance, which is the resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength, is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
It : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
Osmotic resistance : Osmotic resistance increases with higher MCV, larger surface area and a higher degree of cellular metabolism stabilizing the intracellular ion levels.
The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength : The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
It : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
node_520
the red blood cell integrity : The osmotic resistance, which is the resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength, is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
the red blood cell integrity : The osmotic resistance, which is the resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength, is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
the red blood cell integrity : The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
node_525
minimal resistance : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
minimal resistance : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
minimal resistance : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
node_526
minimal resistance : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
minimal resistance : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
node_528
maximal resistance : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
maximal resistance : It is measured as the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of the cells [33].
maximal resistance : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
node_533
The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to the one of wild type (p = 0.00066; n = 8).  
node_535
The osmotic resistance of : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
The osmotic resistance of : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
the one of wild type : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to the one of wild type (p = 0.00066; n = 8).  
node_538
annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
annexin A7 deficient red blood cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to the one of wild type (p = 0.00066; n = 8).  
red blood cells lacking annexin A7 : Interestingly, in vesicles of red blood cells lacking annexin A7 the amount of sorcin is lowered, indicating that its localisation is affected by the loss of annexin A7 or its expression during red blood cell development was reduced.
node_540
wild type cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
wild type cells : The osmotic resistance of annexin A7 deficient red blood cells is significantly increased compared to wild type cells.
wild type cells : The minimal resistance value of knock out cells is observed in a 0.60 % NaCl solution versus 0.65 % for wild type cells.
wild type cells : 50 % haemolysis is achieved at 0.516 % NaCl solution for knock out versus 0.564 % NaCl for wild type cells (mean values, p = 0.00066, n = 8; Fig. 5).
wild type : Our data suggest that the efficiency of micro- and nanovesicle formation is not significantly different in wild type and mutant red blood cells.
node_542
knock out cells : The minimal resistance value of knock out cells is observed in a 0.60 % NaCl solution versus 0.65 % for wild type cells.
knock out cells : The minimal resistance value of knock out cells is observed in a 0.60 % NaCl solution versus 0.65 % for wild type cells.
knock out : 50 % haemolysis is achieved at 0.516 % NaCl solution for knock out versus 0.564 % NaCl for wild type cells (mean values, p = 0.00066, n = 8; Fig. 5).
the knock out cells : The resistance width of the knock out cells is slightly lower (0.20 % instead of 0.25 % NaCl solution).
node_544
a 0.60 % NaCl solution : The minimal resistance value of knock out cells is observed in a 0.60 % NaCl solution versus 0.65 % for wild type cells.
a 0.60 % NaCl solution : The minimal resistance value of knock out cells is observed in a 0.60 % NaCl solution versus 0.65 % for wild type cells.
0.60% : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
node_550
Fig. 5 : 50 % haemolysis is achieved at 0.516 % NaCl solution for knock out versus 0.564 % NaCl for wild type cells (mean values, p = 0.00066, n = 8; Fig. 5).
Fig. 5 : 50 % haemolysis is achieved at 0.516 % NaCl solution for knock out versus 0.564 % NaCl for wild type cells (mean values, p = 0.00066, n = 8; Fig. 5).
Figure 5 :  Figure 5  Osmotic resistance curves of red blood cells from wild type and anxA7-/- mutant mice.
node_554
the red blood cell membrane deformability : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
the red blood cell membrane deformability : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
the cell membrane : Membrane cholesterol diminishes red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex, whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogates association of all raft proteins with no significant effect on areas in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [45,46].  Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells show a more flat shape and have a higher osmotic resistance.
red blood cell deformability : It has been demonstrated that micromolar changes of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration exert a profound effect on the membrane properties that regulate red blood cell deformability [48,49].
node_556
red blood cell membrane : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
red blood cell membrane : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
the red blood cell membrane : Similarly, the high abundance of annexin A7 in micro- and nanovesicles might be fortuitous as a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane, with which annexin A7 associates when the Ca2+ levels rise, appears to be involved in the formation of exovesicles.
the red blood cell membrane : Major constituents of the membrane skeleton are spectrin tetramers linked together by short actin filaments and several other proteins covering the entire cytoplasmic surface of the red blood cell membrane [44].
the cell membrane : Membrane cholesterol diminishes red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex, whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogates association of all raft proteins with no significant effect on areas in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [45,46].  Annexin A7 knock out mouse red blood cells show a more flat shape and have a higher osmotic resistance.
red blood cell membrane : Ca2+ and membrane skeletal proteins are known to play key roles on the red blood cell membrane shape and stability [47].
node_559
the membrane stability : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
the membrane stability : We also performed direct measurements of the red blood cell membrane deformability, to further characterize a possible role of annexin A7 on the membrane stability.
the red blood cell membrane : Ca2+ and membrane skeletal proteins are known to play key roles on the red blood cell membrane shape and stability [47].
the membrane stability : Furthermore, the intracellular Ca2+ was shown to regulate the membrane stability through modulation of cytoskeletal protein interactions [50].
node_568
membrane rigidity : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
membrane rigidity : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
the membrane rigidity : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
node_570
M. Heil : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
M. Heil : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
M. Heil : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
node_572
B. Hoffmann : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
B. Hoffmann : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
B. Hoffmann : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
node_574
R. Merkel : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
R. Merkel : We could not observe any statistically significant difference of values describing membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiments (M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel, unpublished results).
R. Merkel : We would like to thank M. Heil, B. Hoffmann and R. Merkel for the biophysical experiments, L. Eichinger for discussion, B. Gassen for expert technical assistance and R. Müller for protein purification.
node_584
a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity : The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity : The osmotic resistance towards changes in the extracellular ionic strength is a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity.
this assay : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
node_590
minimal resistance : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
minimal resistance : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts : It is measured as a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis starts (minimal resistance) up to a complete lysis (maximal resistance) of a red blood cell.
node_603
F-actin : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
F-actin : As we have not observed a binding of annexin A7 to F-actin (data not shown) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and/or by affecting the ion homeostasis.
F-actin : Annexins have been reported to bind directly to F-actin, we could however exclude such an activity for annexin A7.
F-actin : As a direct interaction with F-actin was ruled out, this effect might be mediated by annexin's Ca2+-binding activity.
node_614
ADVIA 120 : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
ADVIA 120 : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
node_617
murine blood : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
murine blood : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
murine blood : A typical murine blood sample volume consisted of 550 μl, with variations ranging from 200 μl to 900 μl.
murine blood : Approximately 500 μl of murine blood were centrifuged at 200 × g for 15 minutes.
node_619
blood : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
blood : The use of an advanced electronic cell counter/flow cytometer (ADVIA 120) allowed us to screen other parameters as well despite of the limited murine blood volume.
blood : Acquisition of murine and human blood samples  
blood : The mice were killed by cervical dislocation in order to avoid any effect of anaesthetic chemicals on blood parameters.
blood : The daytime of blood collection, sampling site and collection method were kept constant during all experiments.
blood : A typical murine blood sample volume consisted of 550 μl, with variations ranging from 200 μl to 900 μl.
blood : Human blood samples from the authors were collected by vein puncture using common EDTA-monovettes (Sarstedt).  
blood : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
blood : First and second sample draw affect blood measurements, too [22].
blood : Freshly collected lithium-heparin anticoagulated blood samples were centrifuged for 5 minutes at 400 × g and 4°C.
blood : Analyses of human blood samples were performed as described in the manufacturer's protocol.
blood : In general, all platelet procedures were done at 22°C within four hours after collecting the blood sample.
blood : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
blood : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
node_623
haematocrit : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
haematocrit : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
haematocrit : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_625
mean cellular volume : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
mean cellular volume : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
mean cellular volume : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_627
mean cellular haemoglobin : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
mean cellular haemoglobin : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
mean cellular haemoglobin : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_629
mean cellular haemoglobin concentration : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
mean cellular haemoglobin concentration : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
mean cellular haemoglobin concentration : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_632
neutrophiles : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
neutrophiles : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
neutrophiles : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_635
monocytes : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
monocytes : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
monocytes : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_637
eosinophiles : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
eosinophiles : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
eosinophiles : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_639
basophiles : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
basophiles : We analysed leukocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin content, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelets, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles and basophiles.
basophiles : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_642
the platelet numbers : In these tests of whole blood we found only a change in the platelet numbers, whereas all other haematological parameters were not affected.
the platelet numbers : In these tests of whole blood we found only a change in the platelet numbers, whereas all other haematological parameters were not affected.
number : Therefore number and volume of red blood cells and platelets are not calculated values, but directly measured values.
platelet number : The following data were statistically analysed: leucocytes, red blood cells, haemoglobin, haematocrit, mean cellular volume, mean cellular haemoglobin, mean cellular haemoglobin concentration, platelet number, neutrophiles, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophiles, basophiles.
node_653
platelet counts : An increase in platelet counts is a rather uncommon disorder.
platelet counts : An increase in platelet counts is a rather uncommon disorder.
platelet counts : In humans, platelet counts normally increase only transiently as in reactive thrombocytosis and under postoperative conditions or are largely increased in neoplastic diseases.
node_662
platelet rich plasma : Therefore we tested the platelet function and performed aggregometry measurements with platelet rich plasma.
platelet rich plasma : Therefore we tested the platelet function and performed aggregometry measurements with platelet rich plasma.
platelet rich plasma : The resulting supernatants were transferred to new tubes and used as platelet rich plasma (PRP).
the PRP : Subsequently samples of the PRP were adjusted with buffer (5 mM Hepes, 150 mM NaCl, pH 7.3) to 250,000 platelets/μl.
node_665
Platelet activation : Platelet activation is observed as a morphological change from the resting discoid state to activated spherical cells with pseudopods.
Platelet activation : Platelet activation is observed as a morphological change from the resting discoid state to activated spherical cells with pseudopods.
the activated cells : In vitro the activated cells form aggregates recruiting additional cells in the solution thereby reducing its cloudiness.
node_668
the solution : In vitro the activated cells form aggregates recruiting additional cells in the solution thereby reducing its cloudiness.
the solution : In vitro the activated cells form aggregates recruiting additional cells in the solution thereby reducing its cloudiness.
its : In vitro the activated cells form aggregates recruiting additional cells in the solution thereby reducing its cloudiness.
node_671
aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
both curves : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
Platelet aggregation curves from platelet rich plasma of annexin A7 knock out and wild type mice : Platelet aggregation curves from platelet rich plasma of annexin A7 knock out and wild type mice.
Both murine curves : Both murine curves differ significantly at a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation, the mutant shows a slightly lower aggregation velocity (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15, mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission, mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission, standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission, standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission).
node_674
ristocetin : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
ristocetin : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
von Willebrand cofactor : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
von Willebrand factor : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
the initiating chemical : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
ristocetin : The transmission values were measured with an APACT photometer and aggregation was initiated by adding ristocetin.
the initiating chemical : Murine platelets react immediately to the initiating chemical and show no lag phase like the normal human platelets.
ristocetin : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
node_676
ristocetin addition : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
ristocetin addition : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
adding ristocetin : The transmission values were measured with an APACT photometer and aggregation was initiated by adding ristocetin.
node_680
the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation : Both murine curves differ significantly at a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation, the mutant shows a slightly lower aggregation velocity (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15, mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission, mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission, standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission, standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission).
node_683
n knock out : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
n knock out : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
n knock out : Both murine curves differ significantly at a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation, the mutant shows a slightly lower aggregation velocity (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15, mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission, mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission, standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission, standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission).
node_685
n wild type : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
n wild type : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
n wild type : Both murine curves differ significantly at a time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation, the mutant shows a slightly lower aggregation velocity (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15, mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission, mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission, standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission, standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission).
node_688
Fig. 6 : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
Fig. 6 : Analysis of the transmission values of aggregation curves after platelet activation by ristocetin addition (von Willebrand cofactor) showed that both curves differed significantly at the time point of seven seconds after platelet initiation (p = 0.0287, n knock out = 16, n wild type = 15; Fig. 6).
Figure 6 : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
node_691
Annexin A7 deficient platelets : Annexin A7 deficient platelets showed a slightly lowered aggregation velocity.
Annexin A7 deficient platelets : Annexin A7 deficient platelets showed a slightly lowered aggregation velocity.
platelets lacking annexin A7 : In the platelet aggregation experiments the initial aggregation velocity was slightly, but significantly lower in platelets lacking annexin A7.
node_694
human platelets from a healthy donor : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
human platelets from a healthy donor : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
the normal human platelets : Murine platelets react immediately to the initiating chemical and show no lag phase like the normal human platelets.
node_696
the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect : When we compared the aggregation curves of human platelets from a healthy donor with the ones obtained from an individual with a von Willebrand factor type 1 defect, we found that the difference in the curves was much more pronounced as observed in our studies of healthy mouse platelets and anxA7-/-platelets.
slightly affected human platelets : For comparison of the range of the platelet impairment slightly affected human platelets are shown as well (von Willebrand syndrome).  Discussion
node_703
murine platelets : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
murine platelets : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
Murine platelets : Murine platelets react immediately to the initiating chemical and show no lag phase like the normal human platelets.
murine platelets : However the reaction speed of murine platelets is much higher than those of human and due to the technical setup we might have missed larger changes in the mouse samples.
mouse platelets : The immediate reaction of mouse platelets and the absence of a lag phase after triggering may be caused by an immediately initiated thrombin generation [22].
mouse : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
node_705
murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
Murine platelets react immediately to the initiating chemical : Murine platelets react immediately to the initiating chemical and show no lag phase like the normal human platelets.
node_709
a lag phase : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
a lag phase : Furthermore we found that murine platelets responded immediately to the initiating chemical whereas human platelets have a lag phase [23].  Figure 6  
lag phase : Murine platelets react immediately to the initiating chemical and show no lag phase like the normal human platelets.
node_718
aggregation : The transmission values were measured with an APACT photometer and aggregation was initiated by adding ristocetin.
aggregation : The transmission values were measured with an APACT photometer and aggregation was initiated by adding ristocetin.
platelet aggregation : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
node_736
von Willebrand syndrome : For comparison of the range of the platelet impairment slightly affected human platelets are shown as well (von Willebrand syndrome).  Discussion
von Willebrand syndrome : For comparison of the range of the platelet impairment slightly affected human platelets are shown as well (von Willebrand syndrome).  Discussion
the frequent human vWF-syndrome : As known from the frequent human vWF-syndrome or other haemostatic diseases, small defects often are clinically silent and do not result in physiological changes under normal conditions.
node_773
Caohuy et al. : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
Caohuy et al. : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
they : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
node_777
membrane aggregation : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
membrane aggregation : The findings of Caohuy et al. [37] that annexin A7 mediates membrane aggregation also suggested that annexin A7 is an essential component during vesiculation.
membrane aggregation : Previous results in which annexin A7 was shown to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explained by a supportive function of annexin A7 in that it interferes with the local Ca2+ homeostasis thus influencing membrane organization.
node_783
GTP : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
GTP : In addition they reported a further activation of the vesiculation process by GTP and proposed that annexin A7 acts as a GTPase.
GTP : Similarly, the presence of GTP enhanced the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7.
node_787
the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7 : Similarly, the presence of GTP enhanced the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7.
the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7 : Similarly, the presence of GTP enhanced the secretion of surfactant by annexin A7.
surfactant secretion : These results were thought to support a direct role for annexin A7 in surfactant secretion, but in these studies annexin A7 mediated membrane fusion was separated from a second GTP-dependent mechanism [38].
node_795
an annexin A7 knockout mouse :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
an annexin A7 knockout mouse :  Having an annexin A7 knockout mouse we tested the involvement of annexin A7 in budding of red blood cell vesicles.
the annexin A7 mutant : We have also observed a defect in platelet function in the annexin A7 mutant.
anxA7-/-mice : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
annexin A7 knock out mice : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
mutant mice : The wild type and mutant mice were matched regarding their age, weight and sex.
node_804
annexin : Likewise, Dictyostelium discoideum cells, in which the single annexin gene was inactivated, were not impaired in processes requiring membrane fusion [[39]; and data unpublished].
annexin : Likewise, Dictyostelium discoideum cells, in which the single annexin gene was inactivated, were not impaired in processes requiring membrane fusion [[39]; and data unpublished].
the annexins : As the annexins belong to a wide spread and evolutionarily conserved protein family, redundant, but not identical functions are expected.
Annexins : Annexins have been reported to bind directly to F-actin, we could however exclude such an activity for annexin A7.
annexin : As a direct interaction with F-actin was ruled out, this effect might be mediated by annexin's Ca2+-binding activity.
node_807
membrane fusion : Likewise, Dictyostelium discoideum cells, in which the single annexin gene was inactivated, were not impaired in processes requiring membrane fusion [[39]; and data unpublished].
membrane fusion : Likewise, Dictyostelium discoideum cells, in which the single annexin gene was inactivated, were not impaired in processes requiring membrane fusion [[39]; and data unpublished].
membrane fusion : Whereas annexin A2 is tightly associated with endosomes and may have functions in membrane fusion and the endosomal pathway, annexin A7 distributes with plasma membrane raft domains of different types and densities.
membrane fusion :  Having excluded a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion, annexin A7 might act by its property as Ca2+-binding protein [17].
node_853
a wide spread and evolutionarily conserved protein family : As the annexins belong to a wide spread and evolutionarily conserved protein family, redundant, but not identical functions are expected.
a wide spread and evolutionarily conserved protein family : As the annexins belong to a wide spread and evolutionarily conserved protein family, redundant, but not identical functions are expected.
the annexin family : However, so far no other members of the annexin family, which may substitute for annexin A7, have been described in red blood cells.
node_862
the cytoskeleton : The structural basis for the elasticy of red blood cells in circulation are long range molecular functions of the plasma membrane and the membrane associated part of the cytoskeleton [40-43].
the cytoskeleton : The structural basis for the elasticy of red blood cells in circulation are long range molecular functions of the plasma membrane and the membrane associated part of the cytoskeleton [40-43].
the cytoskeleton : In addition, Ca2+ ions can drive spiculation of the membrane bilayer without involving the cytoskeleton [52].  
node_935
The proteins : The proteins are however not required for the vesiculation process.
The proteins : The proteins are however not required for the vesiculation process.
They : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
node_941
exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 : They are also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domains such as lipid rafts, as exogenously added recombinant annexin A7 redistributed to similar positions in a density gradient containing membranes derived from red blood cells of anxA7-/-mice.
Recombinant annexin A7 : Recombinant annexin A7 was purified according to [27], F-actin-binding of recombinant annexin A7 was done as described [28].
recombinant annexin A7 : Recombinant annexin A7 was purified according to [27], F-actin-binding of recombinant annexin A7 was done as described [28].
node_950
murine : Acquisition of murine and human blood samples  
murine : Acquisition of murine and human blood samples  
murine : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
node_952
human blood samples : Acquisition of murine and human blood samples  
human blood samples : Acquisition of murine and human blood samples  
human blood samples : Analyses of human blood samples were performed as described in the manufacturer's protocol.
the blood sample : In general, all platelet procedures were done at 22°C within four hours after collecting the blood sample.
human blood samples : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
node_955
129Sv : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
129Sv : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
129Sv : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
node_957
129Sv : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
129Sv : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
129Sv mice : For example, BALB/c mice have a significantly increased velocity of platelet aggregation as compared to 129Sv mice, which were used throughout this study [23].  Self forming iodixanol density gradients of human red blood cells  The subcellular distribution of annexin A7 was addressed according to [24].
node_960
annexin A7 knock out mice : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
annexin A7 knock out mice : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
anxA7-/- : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
node_963
1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
the syringe : Coagulation generally was inhibited with 1/10 volume of 10 mM NaEDTA, pH 7.5, already present in the syringe.
node_965
they : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
they : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
The mice : The mice were killed by cervical dislocation in order to avoid any effect of anaesthetic chemicals on blood parameters.
node_967
cervical dislocation : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
cervical dislocation : Blood from 129Sv wild type and annexin A7 knock out mice (anxA7-/-) kept under pathogen-free conditions and fed with regular food, was collected in 1 ml syringes with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they had been killed by cervical dislocation.
cervical dislocation : The mice were killed by cervical dislocation in order to avoid any effect of anaesthetic chemicals on blood parameters.
node_969
pH 7.5 : Coagulation generally was inhibited with 1/10 volume of 10 mM NaEDTA, pH 7.5, already present in the syringe.
pH 7.5 : Coagulation generally was inhibited with 1/10 volume of 10 mM NaEDTA, pH 7.5, already present in the syringe.
pH 7.5 : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
pH 7.5 : A volume of 500 μl washed red blood cells were combined with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 adjusted to 5 μM Ca2+ ionophore A23187) and incubated for 30 minutes at 37°C.
node_975
The wild type and mutant mice : The wild type and mutant mice were matched regarding their age, weight and sex.
The wild type and mutant mice : The wild type and mutant mice were matched regarding their age, weight and sex.
their : The wild type and mutant mice were matched regarding their age, weight and sex.
node_981
sampling site : The daytime of blood collection, sampling site and collection method were kept constant during all experiments.
sampling site : The daytime of blood collection, sampling site and collection method were kept constant during all experiments.
the blood sampling site : We performed our studies using well standardized sampling conditions, as differences in the blood sampling site, for example between tail and heart, show large changes in all cell type counts.
node_986
the authors : Human blood samples from the authors were collected by vein puncture using common EDTA-monovettes (Sarstedt).  
the authors : Human blood samples from the authors were collected by vein puncture using common EDTA-monovettes (Sarstedt).  
Authors : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_1002
20 mM Hepes : Red blood cells were centrifuged and washed in isotonic buffered salt solution, collected in ice cold lysis buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 200 μM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose, and proteinase inhibitors (Roche)), homogenized by a loosely fitting dounce homogenizer and additional passages through a 22 gauge needle.
20 mM Hepes : Red blood cells were centrifuged and washed in isotonic buffered salt solution, collected in ice cold lysis buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 200 μM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose, and proteinase inhibitors (Roche)), homogenized by a loosely fitting dounce homogenizer and additional passages through a 22 gauge needle.
20 mM Hepes : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
20 mM Hepes : A volume of 500 μl washed red blood cells were combined with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 adjusted to 5 μM Ca2+ ionophore A23187) and incubated for 30 minutes at 37°C.
20 mM Hepes : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
node_1004
pH 7.4 : Red blood cells were centrifuged and washed in isotonic buffered salt solution, collected in ice cold lysis buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 200 μM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose, and proteinase inhibitors (Roche)), homogenized by a loosely fitting dounce homogenizer and additional passages through a 22 gauge needle.
pH 7.4 : Red blood cells were centrifuged and washed in isotonic buffered salt solution, collected in ice cold lysis buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 200 μM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose, and proteinase inhibitors (Roche)), homogenized by a loosely fitting dounce homogenizer and additional passages through a 22 gauge needle.
pH 7.4 : A 50 % iodixanol solution was established by mixing Optiprep solution (60 % iodixanol; Sigma) with buffer (120 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 1.2 mM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose).
pH 7.4 : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
node_1006
A 50 % iodixanol solution : A 50 % iodixanol solution was established by mixing Optiprep solution (60 % iodixanol; Sigma) with buffer (120 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 1.2 mM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose).
A 50 % iodixanol solution : A 50 % iodixanol solution was established by mixing Optiprep solution (60 % iodixanol; Sigma) with buffer (120 mM Hepes, pH 7.4, 1.2 mM CaCl2, 0.25 M sucrose).
this 50 % iodixanol solution : Seven parts of this 50 % iodixanol solution were mixed with thirteen parts of the red blood cell solution, generating a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol.
node_1011
a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol : Seven parts of this 50 % iodixanol solution were mixed with thirteen parts of the red blood cell solution, generating a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol.
a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol : Seven parts of this 50 % iodixanol solution were mixed with thirteen parts of the red blood cell solution, generating a gradient solution containing 17.5 % iodixanol.
The mixture : The mixture was filled into a centrifuge tube underlayed by cushions of 30 % and 35 % iodixanol and centrifuged for 3 hours at 270,000 × g in a SW41 Ti swing out rotor (Beckman) to achieve a nearly linear density gradient (approximately 1.06 g/ml to 1.20 g/ml) [24].
node_1015
a nearly linear density gradient : The mixture was filled into a centrifuge tube underlayed by cushions of 30 % and 35 % iodixanol and centrifuged for 3 hours at 270,000 × g in a SW41 Ti swing out rotor (Beckman) to achieve a nearly linear density gradient (approximately 1.06 g/ml to 1.20 g/ml) [24].
a nearly linear density gradient : The mixture was filled into a centrifuge tube underlayed by cushions of 30 % and 35 % iodixanol and centrifuged for 3 hours at 270,000 × g in a SW41 Ti swing out rotor (Beckman) to achieve a nearly linear density gradient (approximately 1.06 g/ml to 1.20 g/ml) [24].
the gradient : Fractions of 0.6 ml were collected from the top of the gradient by a 1 ml syringe without using a needle and immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen for further use.
node_1024
4°C : Freshly collected lithium-heparin anticoagulated blood samples were centrifuged for 5 minutes at 400 × g and 4°C.
4°C : Freshly collected lithium-heparin anticoagulated blood samples were centrifuged for 5 minutes at 400 × g and 4°C.
4°C : After incubation EDTA was added to the solution to a final concentration of 5 mM and centrifuged for 5 minutes at 400 × g and 4°C.
4°C : The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 20 minutes at 15,000 × g and 4°C.
4°C : The supernatant of the 15,000 × g step was further centrifuged for 60 minutes at 100,000 × g and 4°C.
node_1029
150 mM NaCl : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
150 mM NaCl : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
150 mM NaCl : A volume of 500 μl washed red blood cells were combined with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 adjusted to 5 μM Ca2+ ionophore A23187) and incubated for 30 minutes at 37°C.
150 mM NaCl : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
node_1032
washing buffer : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
washing buffer : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
washing buffer : The resulting pellet was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 400 × g again to collect a supernatant enriched with red blood cell microvesicles.
washing buffer : The final pellet of this step was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 15,000 × g again to purify a supernatant enriched in nanovesicles according to [7,20].
node_1033
washing buffer : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
washing buffer : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
NaCl : The erythrocytes were washed five times with 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, and 150 mM NaCl (washing buffer).
node_1039
37°C : A volume of 500 μl washed red blood cells were combined with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 adjusted to 5 μM Ca2+ ionophore A23187) and incubated for 30 minutes at 37°C.
37°C : A volume of 500 μl washed red blood cells were combined with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 adjusted to 5 μM Ca2+ ionophore A23187) and incubated for 30 minutes at 37°C.
37°C : The vesicles were assayed for acetylcholine esterase activity and used for further analysis.  Acetylcholine esterase assay  A 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicles was mixed with an equal volume of buffer (20 mM Hepes, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl, 0.5 % Triton X-100), vortexed and incubated for 5 minutes at 37°C.
37°C : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
node_1042
The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 20 minutes at 15,000 × g and 4°C : The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 20 minutes at 15,000 × g and 4°C.
The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 20 minutes at 15,000 × g and 4°C : The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 20 minutes at 15,000 × g and 4°C.
the 15,000 × g step : The supernatant of the 15,000 × g step was further centrifuged for 60 minutes at 100,000 × g and 4°C.
node_1044
15,000 × g : The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 20 minutes at 15,000 × g and 4°C.
15,000 × g : The supernatant was collected and centrifuged for 20 minutes at 15,000 × g and 4°C.
15,000 × g : The supernatant of the 15,000 × g step was further centrifuged for 60 minutes at 100,000 × g and 4°C.
15,000 × g : The final pellet of this step was resuspended in washing buffer and centrifuged at 15,000 × g again to purify a supernatant enriched in nanovesicles according to [7,20].
node_1066
5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid : Subsequently 640 μl sodium phosphate buffer (100 mM Na2PO4, pH 7.6), 50 μl DTNB (5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid), 10 mM in sodium phosphate buffer), and 50 μl acetylthiocholine chloride (12,5 mM in H2O) were added.
5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid : Subsequently 640 μl sodium phosphate buffer (100 mM Na2PO4, pH 7.6), 50 μl DTNB (5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid), 10 mM in sodium phosphate buffer), and 50 μl acetylthiocholine chloride (12,5 mM in H2O) were added.
DTNB : Subsequently 640 μl sodium phosphate buffer (100 mM Na2PO4, pH 7.6), 50 μl DTNB (5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid), 10 mM in sodium phosphate buffer), and 50 μl acetylthiocholine chloride (12,5 mM in H2O) were added.
node_1068
room temperature : The reaction took place at room temperature and was measured photometrically at a wavelength of 405 nm according to the Ellmann' method [25].  
room temperature : The reaction took place at room temperature and was measured photometrically at a wavelength of 405 nm according to the Ellmann' method [25].  
room temperature : The experiment was performed at room temperature.
node_1072
NaCl : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
NaCl : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
NaCl : Determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cells  A Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4 buffered NaCl gradient (pH 7.4) comprised of the following NaCl steps was used for this assay: 0.90%, 0.65%, 0.60%, 0.55%, 0.50%, 0.45%, 0.40%, 0.35%, 0.30%, 0.10%.
node_1081
Platelet aggregation assay :  Platelet aggregation assay  
Platelet aggregation assay :  Platelet aggregation assay  
the assay : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
node_1084
platelet rich plasma : The resulting supernatants were transferred to new tubes and used as platelet rich plasma (PRP).
platelet rich plasma : The resulting supernatants were transferred to new tubes and used as platelet rich plasma (PRP).
PRP : The resulting supernatants were transferred to new tubes and used as platelet rich plasma (PRP).
node_1088
FRG : The platelet aggregation measurements were done according to the method developed by Born and Cross [26] using an APACT photometer (Labor, Ahrendsburg, FRG) and the APACT software (APACT 1.4).
FRG : The platelet aggregation measurements were done according to the method developed by Born and Cross [26] using an APACT photometer (Labor, Ahrendsburg, FRG) and the APACT software (APACT 1.4).
FRG : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
node_1091
APACT 1.4 : The platelet aggregation measurements were done according to the method developed by Born and Cross [26] using an APACT photometer (Labor, Ahrendsburg, FRG) and the APACT software (APACT 1.4).
APACT 1.4 : The platelet aggregation measurements were done according to the method developed by Born and Cross [26] using an APACT photometer (Labor, Ahrendsburg, FRG) and the APACT software (APACT 1.4).
the APACT software : The platelet aggregation measurements were done according to the method developed by Born and Cross [26] using an APACT photometer (Labor, Ahrendsburg, FRG) and the APACT software (APACT 1.4).
node_1097
a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets : 250 μl adjusted platelets were prewarmed to 37°C and used in the assay, and the aggregation process was started by adding 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg/ml ristocetin solution (DiaMed Diagnostica, Bensheim, FRG; concentration in the assay: 1.5 mg/ml), a reagent which worked reliably in our hands with mouse and human platelets.
node_1114
an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter : For standard haematopoetic measurements and cell counts on murine and human blood samples about 300 μl of blood were analysed with an ADVIA 120 electronic cell counter (Bayer).
this equipment : With this equipment red blood cells and platelets are "transformed" into spherical bodies without changing their volume.
the ADVIA 120 cell counter : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_1147
the manuscript : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the manuscript : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the manuscript : All authors read and approved the manuscript.
node_1156
the studies : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
the studies : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
its : Authors' contributions  CH and CSC planned and carried out the experiments with the red blood cells and platelets and the fractionation studies and drafted the manuscript, GL was responsible for platelets, RK gave support on the ADVIA 120 cell counter, evaluated and discussed the results, SMP and BSG gave support on the APACT system, platelet aggregation experiments, and evaluated the results, CZ was responsible for the sorcin studies, MS studied the cytoskeletal activities of the protein, AAN conceived of the studies and participated in its design.
node_1165
the ZMMK : Mass spectrometric analysis was performed in the central service facilities of the ZMMK.
the ZMMK : Mass spectrometric analysis was performed in the central service facilities of the ZMMK.
Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne : This worked is supported by a grant from the ZMMK (Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne).
node_1168
Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne : This worked is supported by a grant from the ZMMK (Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne).
Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne : This worked is supported by a grant from the ZMMK (Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne).
ZMMK : This worked is supported by a grant from the ZMMK (Center of Molecular Medicine Cologne).
