0
IOP : The purpose of this study was to determine the IOPs of genetically distinct mouse strains, assess the effects of factors such as age, sex and time of day on IOP in specific strain backgrounds, and to assess the effects of specific candidate gene mutations on IOP.
IOP : The purpose of this study was to determine the IOPs of genetically distinct mouse strains, assess the effects of factors such as age, sex and time of day on IOP in specific strain backgrounds, and to assess the effects of specific candidate gene mutations on IOP.
1
IOP : Most tested strains exhibit a diurnal rhythm with IOP being the highest during the dark period of the day.
IOP : Homozygosity for a null allele of the carbonic anhydrase II gene (Car2n) does not alter IOP while homozygosity for a mutation in the leptin receptor gene (Leprdb) that causes obesity and diabetes results in increased IOP.
IOP : Thus it is feasible to assess sufficient numbers of mice for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis methods and to use these methods to identify chromosomal regions contributing to strain differences in IOP.
IOP :  Car2 deficiency does not alter IOP  Bicarbonate formation is important for aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary processes and carbonic anhydrase (CA) facilitates this secretion.
IOP : Our experiments show that a genetic deficiency of CAII in mice homozygous for a mutation in the Car2 gene does not alter IOP.
IOP : It also is possible that CAII substantially contributes to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse CAIV is sufficient to prevent an effect of CAII deficiency on IOP in Car2 mutant mice.
the IOP : The white light was used at very low intensity and was dim but we cannot rule out the possibility that this brief exposure altered the IOP.
2
Albino C57BL/6J mice homozygous for a tyrosinase mutation (Tyrc-2J) : Albino C57BL/6J mice homozygous for a tyrosinase mutation (Tyrc-2J) have higher IOPs than their pigmented counterparts.
their : Albino C57BL/6J mice homozygous for a tyrosinase mutation (Tyrc-2J) have higher IOPs than their pigmented counterparts.
The mice : The mice were 6 to 12 months old at the time of analysis and were not studied at other ages unless indicated.
3
Glaucoma : Background  Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness but its molecular etiology is poorly understood.
its : Background  Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness but its molecular etiology is poorly understood.
4
We : We have focused on developing the mouse system for IOP and glaucoma studies [13-19].
we : Previously, we developed a method to measure IOP in mice and reported initial findings on the magnitude of mouse IOP [13].
our : The initial experiments demonstrated that in our hands careful ocular cannulation has a very minor effect on IOP (average of -0.3 mmHg, mode -0.5 mmHg) and demonstrated significant differences in intraocular pressure levels between four mouse strains.
we : Here, we provide an update, including an extensive strain survey, and show that the methodology is reliable and produces reproducible data over extended periods of time.
We : We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
We : We have observed similar quantities of these cells at this location in other strains with lower IOP.
we : To assess the consistency of IOP in specific strains, we measured IOP in different cohorts of each strain maintained under similar conditions at different times.
We : We purposefully included strains at each end of the IOP spectrum, and strain C57BL/6J (B6) that is commonly used for genetic experiments (Figure 3).
our : During this period, the room in which our animals were housed and the manufacturer of the mouse diet were changed.
We :  Effect of age on IOP  We focused on the commonly used B6, 129P3/J and C3H/HeJ strains to determine the effects of age on IOP (Figure 4).
we : To further assess the effects of anesthesia, we measured IOP in groups of genetically identical B6 mice subjected to different doses (1X, 1.5X and 2X) at 5 and 25 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
we : In support of a later effect of anesthesia (since general anesthesia is reported to mask diurnal variation in IOP [21]), we identified increased IOP during the dark compared to the light period of the day in several tested strains (Figure 6).
we : To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
we : To test if the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola alters IOP in relation to that of strain B6, we compared the IOPs of pure B6 males and consomic B6 males that had the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome (backcrossed for 11 generations).
we : Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
we : To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared mice that were genetically similar but were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in obesity and diabetes before 4 months of age on the C57BLKS/J strain background used [27].
we : IOP was modestly but significantly elevated in obese, diabetic homozygous mutants (14.7 ± 0.3 mmHg) compared to non-obese, non-diabetic heterozygotes (13.4 ± 0.4 mmHg, P < 0.01, Figure 9).  Tyr  To determine if albinism alters IOP, we analyzed B6 mice that were either pigmented or albino.
We : We report the IOPs of over 30 genetically different mouse strains that were housed in the same environmental conditions.
our : Using our method, a trained investigator can measure the IOPs of 10 mice in an hour.
we : The strain survey we report provides valuable information for designing these experiments.
we : The relationship between the IOPs we measure and those in conscious mice depends upon the effect of our anesthetic protocol (intraperitoneal injection of 99 mg/kg ketamine and 9 mg/kg xylazine).
our : The relationship between the IOPs we measure and those in conscious mice depends upon the effect of our anesthetic protocol (intraperitoneal injection of 99 mg/kg ketamine and 9 mg/kg xylazine).
we : Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
our : Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
Our : Our results agree with the time course of cardiovascular depression caused by intraperitoneal administration of ketamine and xylazine in rats.
our : The time 0 measurement in that study was at a very similar state of anesthesia as our 4 and 5 minute time points (starting as soon as possible and within 20 to 60 seconds of adequate anesthesia), and the 5 minute rat time point was similar to our 9 and 10 minute measurement times.
our : The time 0 measurement in that study was at a very similar state of anesthesia as our 4 and 5 minute time points (starting as soon as possible and within 20 to 60 seconds of adequate anesthesia), and the 5 minute rat time point was similar to our 9 and 10 minute measurement times.
we : In mice, the strain does not appear to be important as no early effect of anesthesia was present in the three distantly related laboratory strains [37] we studied in detail, and we have not observed any obvious effect during this period in any analyzed strain.
we : In mice, the strain does not appear to be important as no early effect of anesthesia was present in the three distantly related laboratory strains [37] we studied in detail, and we have not observed any obvious effect during this period in any analyzed strain.
We : We use wood shavings for bedding and wood shavings expose the mice to terpenes.
We : We evaluated the relationship between these latter factors and IOP in genetically homogeneous mouse strains in a controlled environment.
We : We previously demonstrated that the glaucomatous strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty develop elevated IOP with age [14,19].  Gender
we : In the examined strains, we found no consistent differences in IOP between males and females.
we : Of possible relevance, we previously reported that female mice of strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty develop elevated IOP at an earlier age than males [14,19].
Our : Our comparison of the relationship between blood pressure and IOP in young, adult female mice of different mouse strains, whose blood pressures differed up to 36 mmHg, did not reveal a positive correlation.
we : To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
We : We first suspected IOP changes with time of day when the IOP of a group of B6 mice measured in the hour prior to onset of the dark period appeared to be higher than at other times of day.
we : Thus, we compared the IOPs of mice at different times of day and identified several strains with significantly higher IOP during the dark compared to the light period.
Our : Our experiments show that a genetic deficiency of CAII in mice homozygous for a mutation in the Car2 gene does not alter IOP.
our : CAIV activity was recently demonstrated in the ciliary processes [73] and so our data may support a more substantial role for CAIV compared to CAII in aqueous humor secretion.
we : Here, we show increased IOP in mice lacking tyrosinase activity compared to otherwise genetically identical pigmented B6 mice.
our : In trained hands, our measurement procedure is reliable, accurate and rapid enough to allow large scale genetic studies of factors determining IOP.
The Jackson Laboratory : All mice were bred and maintained at The Jackson Laboratory.
we : To ensure that we were analyzing the effect of age and not diabetes, the B6 mice in the aging experiment were fed NIH31 (4% fat) chow.
We : We have found no differences in IOP between B6 mice housed on the 4% fat and 6% fat versions of this otherwise identical diet.
The Jackson Laboratory's : The colony was monitored for specific pathogens by The Jackson Laboratory's routine surveillance program (see  for specific pathogens).  Intraocular pressure  Intraocular pressures were measured as described elsewhere [13,77].
we : The PCR products we purified and sequenced as described [22].  Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
We : The PCR products we purified and sequenced as described [22].  Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
We : We also thank Jane Barker for the Car2 mice, Marianna Mertts for her help with analysis of Myoc alleles, and members of the John laboratory, Tatyana Golovkina, Edward Leiter and Timothy O'Brien for critical reading of the manuscript.
5
a method to measure IOP in mice : Previously, we developed a method to measure IOP in mice and reported initial findings on the magnitude of mouse IOP [13].
The procedure : The procedure involves direct measurement of pressure following cannulation of the anterior chamber.
the methodology : Here, we provide an update, including an extensive strain survey, and show that the methodology is reliable and produces reproducible data over extended periods of time.
our anesthetic protocol : Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
6
These studies : These studies demonstrate that mice are a practical and powerful experimental system to study the genetics of IOP regulation and disease processes that raise IOP to harmful levels.
all studied strains :  Clinical and histological analysis of the eyes of all studied strains (see Table 1) did not identify anatomic or pathologic features that might account for the differences in IOP.
these experiments : In these experiments, IOP measurements were made between 5 and 12 minutes after administration of anesthesia.
both rat and mouse studies : Thus, although both rat and mouse studies show that anesthesia decreases IOP, the studies do not agree on the timing of the effect.
the studies : Thus, although both rat and mouse studies show that anesthesia decreases IOP, the studies do not agree on the timing of the effect.
both the rat and mouse IOP studies : Essentially the same dose of ketamine and route of administration was used in both the rat and mouse IOP studies.
7
More than 20% of CBA/CaJ mice : More than 20% of CBA/CaJ mice had IOPs of over 21 mmHg, which increases risk for glaucoma in humans.
these mice : We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
The obese, diabetic mice : The obese, diabetic mice had higher IOPs than their lean, non-diabetic littermates.
their : The obese, diabetic mice had higher IOPs than their lean, non-diabetic littermates.
8
a small group of these mice : We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
their : We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
they : We aged a small group of these mice (n = 4) to 2 years and histologically analyzed their optic nerves and retinas but they did not develop glaucoma.
9
Figure 2 : For example, the iridocorneal angle and aqueous humor drainage structures are open to the anterior chamber and have normal morphology in both BALB/cJ and CBA/CaJ mice (Figure 2).
Figure 2 : Figure 2  
Figure 1 : All strains shown in Figure 1 were evaluated but only strains with abnormalities are shown.
Figure 3 : Figure 3  
10
Pigment filled macrophages that resemble human clump cells : Pigment filled macrophages that resemble human clump cells were often located in the angle of CBA/CaJ mice but were never sufficient to block drainage.
these cells : We have observed similar quantities of these cells at this location in other strains with lower IOP.
11
the angle of CBA/CaJ : Pigment filled macrophages that resemble human clump cells were often located in the angle of CBA/CaJ mice but were never sufficient to block drainage.
this location : We have observed similar quantities of these cells at this location in other strains with lower IOP.
12
The angle recess between the cornea (C) and iris root (I) : The angle recess between the cornea (C) and iris root (I) was open and not occluded.
this recess : Aqueous humor passes through this recess before entering the drainage structures.
13
were : The average IOP of different cohorts of strains CBA/CaJ, CBA/CaHN (both high end of spectrum) and B6 were consistent over time.
This : This was true of most strains assessed on multiple occasions.
14
The average IOP of different cohorts of strains CBA/CaJ, CBA/CaHN (both high end of spectrum) and B6 : The average IOP of different cohorts of strains CBA/CaJ, CBA/CaHN (both high end of spectrum) and B6 were consistent over time.
the average IOP : Strain 129P3/J was the most variable strain with the average IOP fluctuating by up to 2.5 mmHg.
15
The IOPs of strains that were analyzed multiple times in the same year : The IOPs of strains that were analyzed multiple times in the same year are listed in the chronological order that they were obtained with the earliest measurement on left.
they : The IOPs of strains that were analyzed multiple times in the same year are listed in the chronological order that they were obtained with the earliest measurement on left.
16
Strain 129P3/J : Strain 129P3/J was the most variable strain with the average IOP fluctuating by up to 2.5 mmHg.
this strain : Between early 1996 and 1997, however, the IOP of this strain did jump from approximately 7.7 mmHg to approximately 11 mmHg (Figure 3).
17
this period : During this period, the room in which our animals were housed and the manufacturer of the mouse diet were changed.
the same period : Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
18
1997 : Between early 1996 and 1997, however, the IOP of this strain did jump from approximately 7.7 mmHg to approximately 11 mmHg (Figure 3).
1997 : Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
1997 : Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
1997 : Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
19
A/J : Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
A/J : The increased IOP in A/J also was reproducible, with the average IOP of mice assessed in the year 2000 being 14.5 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 16).
20
A/J : Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
A/J : The increased IOP in A/J also was reproducible, with the average IOP of mice assessed in the year 2000 being 14.5 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 16).
21
1996 : Over the same period, the IOP of A/J also increased dramatically, from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmHg (n = 11) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 19) in 1997.
1996 : Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
1996 : Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
22
BALB/cJ : For BALB/cJ and C57BL/6J, all groups were male and primarily 3 to 4 months old.
B6 :  Effect of age on IOP  We focused on the commonly used B6, 129P3/J and C3H/HeJ strains to determine the effects of age on IOP (Figure 4).
B6 : In B6, age had a significant effect on IOP (P < 0.001).
B6 : Although the decrease was of a similar level to the variation observed in 3 month old mice (see Figure 3), the IOPs of control young mice (see Methods) analyzed at the same times as the various B6 age groups did not decrease.
B6 : For example, control mice analyzed at the same time as the 3 month, 12 month and 18 month B6 age groups had IOPs of 13.0 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.3 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.7 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 12), respectively.
Car2 : Similarly, 6 to 9 month old males and females that are homozygous for normal (+) or mutant (n) alleles of Car2 have similar IOPs (n = 18 and 14, respectively).
Car2 : Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
Car2 : Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
CAII : There are multiple forms of CA and the CAII isoform is reported to be the predominant form in the ciliary processes [71,72].
CAII : Our experiments show that a genetic deficiency of CAII in mice homozygous for a mutation in the Car2 gene does not alter IOP.
CAII : CAIV activity was recently demonstrated in the ciliary processes [73] and so our data may support a more substantial role for CAIV compared to CAII in aqueous humor secretion.
CAII : It also is possible that CAII substantially contributes to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse CAIV is sufficient to prevent an effect of CAII deficiency on IOP in Car2 mutant mice.
CAII : It also is possible that CAII substantially contributes to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse CAIV is sufficient to prevent an effect of CAII deficiency on IOP in Car2 mutant mice.
23
strains B6 and C3H/HeJ : Importantly, the IOPs of strains B6 and C3H/HeJ did not change during this time (B6, 12.3. ± 0.5 mmHg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg in 1997, n= 10 and 14; C3H/HeJ, 13.7 ± 0.8 mmHg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmHg in 1997, n = 9 and 19).
C3H/HeJ strains :  Effect of age on IOP  We focused on the commonly used B6, 129P3/J and C3H/HeJ strains to determine the effects of age on IOP (Figure 4).
B6 age groups : For example, control mice analyzed at the same time as the 3 month, 12 month and 18 month B6 age groups had IOPs of 13.0 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.3 ± 0.2 mmHg (n = 14), 13.7 ± 0.4 mmHg (n = 12), respectively.
strains C57BL/6J and 129P3/J : IOP decreased significantly in strains C57BL/6J and 129P3/J but not C3H/HeJ.
The C57BL/6J and 129P3/J groups : The C57BL/6J and 129P3/J groups consisted of approximately equal numbers of males and females.
strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty : Of possible relevance, we previously reported that female mice of strains DBA/2J and AKXD-28/Ty develop elevated IOP at an earlier age than males [14,19].
C57BLKS/J strains : All strains other than CBA/CaHN and C57BLKS/J strains were evaluated.
24
decreased : IOP was slightly decreased at both 12 months (12.2 ± 0.2 mmHg) and 19 months (12.2 ± 0.3 mmHg) compared to 3 months (13.1 ± 0.3 mmHg) and 7 months (13.3 ± 0.3 mmHg).
the decrease : Although the decrease was of a similar level to the variation observed in 3 month old mice (see Figure 3), the IOPs of control young mice (see Methods) analyzed at the same times as the various B6 age groups did not decrease.
this brief exposure : The white light was used at very low intensity and was dim but we cannot rule out the possibility that this brief exposure altered the IOP.
25
Figure 3 : Between early 1996 and 1997, however, the IOP of this strain did jump from approximately 7.7 mmHg to approximately 11 mmHg (Figure 3).
Figure 3 : Although the decrease was of a similar level to the variation observed in 3 month old mice (see Figure 3), the IOPs of control young mice (see Methods) analyzed at the same times as the various B6 age groups did not decrease.
26
129P3/J : IOP decreased significantly in strains C57BL/6J and 129P3/J but not C3H/HeJ.
strain 129P3/J : In strain 129P3/J, IOP did not differ significantly with age between 3 and 14 months but was lower in 18 month old mice (P < 0.001 compared to all younger ages, Figure 4).
27
 Figure 4 : IOP was even lower in the 24 month B6 mice (10.8 ± 0.4 mmHg), and again the average IOP of young controls measured at the same time was not changed (13.5 ± 0.2, n = 12).  Figure 4  IOP changes with increasing Age.  
Figure 4 : In strain 129P3/J, IOP did not differ significantly with age between 3 and 14 months but was lower in 18 month old mice (P < 0.001 compared to all younger ages, Figure 4).
Figure 5 :  Figure 5  No effect of 1X anesthetic dose within 12 minutes of administration.
28
129P3/J : Strains B6 and 129P3/J have been extensively evaluated at multiple ages between 3 and 24 months of age.
strain 129P3/J : Sex differences were always absent in strain 129P3/J and typically absent in strain B6.
29
IOP : Initial experiments suggested that an almost identical dose (100 mg/kg ketamine and 9 mg/kg xylazine) of anesthesia had no effect on IOP during the experimental period with IOP being measured as soon as possible after the mouse was unconscious, typically minutes.
IOP : Initial experiments suggested that an almost identical dose (100 mg/kg ketamine and 9 mg/kg xylazine) of anesthesia had no effect on IOP during the experimental period with IOP being measured as soon as possible after the mouse was unconscious, typically minutes.
30
IOP : To further assess the effects of anesthesia, we measured IOP in groups of genetically identical B6 mice subjected to different doses (1X, 1.5X and 2X) at 5 and 25 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
IOP : For all doses, IOP decreased by 25 minutes (P = 0.005 for time).
IOP : The greater the dose the greater the decrease in IOP.
IOP : At the 5 minute measurement, however, IOP was the same using all doses suggesting that the anesthetic effect on IOP had not yet occurred.
IOP : At the 5 minute measurement, however, IOP was the same using all doses suggesting that the anesthetic effect on IOP had not yet occurred.
IOP : To identify any early window when it may be possible to assess IOP without an obvious anesthetic effect, 195 mice of strain B6 were anesthetized with the 1X dose and IOP was measured at 1 minute time points between 4 and 12 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
IOP : To identify any early window when it may be possible to assess IOP without an obvious anesthetic effect, 195 mice of strain B6 were anesthetized with the 1X dose and IOP was measured at 1 minute time points between 4 and 12 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
IOP : In support of a later effect of anesthesia (since general anesthesia is reported to mask diurnal variation in IOP [21]), we identified increased IOP during the dark compared to the light period of the day in several tested strains (Figure 6).
IOP : All doses decreased IOP by 25 minutes.
IOP : Scatter-plots demonstrating no change in IOP over the 12 minutes following anesthetic administration in three relatively unrelated mouse strains.
31
three relatively unrelated mouse strains : Scatter-plots demonstrating no change in IOP over the 12 minutes following anesthetic administration in three relatively unrelated mouse strains.
All strains : All strains consisted of males and females that ranged from 3 to 6 months of age.
32
Scatter-plots : Scatter-plots demonstrating no change in IOP over the 12 minutes following anesthetic administration in three relatively unrelated mouse strains.
The scatter- : The scatter-plots include 195 C57BL/6J, 161 129P3/J and 145 DBA/2J mice.
The scatter-plots : The scatter-plots include 195 C57BL/6J, 161 129P3/J and 145 DBA/2J mice.
33
195 mice of strain B6 : To identify any early window when it may be possible to assess IOP without an obvious anesthetic effect, 195 mice of strain B6 were anesthetized with the 1X dose and IOP was measured at 1 minute time points between 4 and 12 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
All mice : All mice were 2 to 4 months old except for CBA/CaJ that were 5 to 6 months old.
All mice : All mice were female and 2 to 4 months old, with the exception that the female CBA/CaJ used for IOP assessment were 6 to 7 months old.
the rats : The IOP depression occurred very soon after anesthesia in the rats but was delayed in the mice.
the mice : We use wood shavings for bedding and wood shavings expose the mice to terpenes.
the albino B6 mice : Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
All mice : All mice were bred and maintained at The Jackson Laboratory.
The mice : The mice were group housed and the cages were changed one time per week.
the mice : If any cage appeared soiled between scheduled changes, the mice were placed in a clean cage.
The mice : The mice were typically acclimatized to the procedure room for at least 2 weeks prior to measurement, but sometimes between 1 and 2 weeks.
these animals : As demonstrated here, the IOPs of C57BL/6J are very consistent over time and so these animals were interspersed with experimental mice during all experiments to ensure that calibration had not drifted and that the system was functioning optimally.
the animals : Whenever possible, the investigator measuring IOP did not know the genotypes of the animals.
The mice : The mice were analyzed in the same procedure room as was used for IOP measurment.
34
Figure 7 :  An initial study of the relationship between blood pressure and IOP in mice did not detect a good correlation (R2 = 0.1, Figure 7).  Figure 7  No correlation between blood pressure and IOP.
Figure 7 :  An initial study of the relationship between blood pressure and IOP in mice did not detect a good correlation (R2 = 0.1, Figure 7).  Figure 7  No correlation between blood pressure and IOP.
Figure 10 : Figure 10  
35
each strain :  There is no strong correlation between the average systolic blood pressure of each strain and the average IOP of that strain (R2 = 0.1).
that strain :  There is no strong correlation between the average systolic blood pressure of each strain and the average IOP of that strain (R2 = 0.1).
36
Myoc :  Myoc alleles do not associate with the magnitude of IOP  Mutations in the myocilin gene (MYOC) cause human glaucoma.
Myoc : To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
the mouse Myoc gene : To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
the gene : To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
37
Two alleles : Two alleles were identified.
these alleles : One of these alleles had a 12 nucleotide insertion in the promoter region (ccagagcagggt, between positions -340 and -341) compared to the previously published sequence and is called the insertion allele.
38
the previously published sequence : One of these alleles had a 12 nucleotide insertion in the promoter region (ccagagcagggt, between positions -340 and -341) compared to the previously published sequence and is called the insertion allele.
the published sequence : The other allele was identical to the published sequence [22].
39
The other allele : The other allele was identical to the published sequence [22].
The insertion allele : The insertion allele also had a previously reported substitution (A to G, Thr164Ala) in exon 1 and several other single base changes in the promoter region [22].
this allele : The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).  Figure 8  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
it : The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).  Figure 8  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
40
the promoter region : One of these alleles had a 12 nucleotide insertion in the promoter region (ccagagcagggt, between positions -340 and -341) compared to the previously published sequence and is called the insertion allele.
the promoter region : The insertion allele also had a previously reported substitution (A to G, Thr164Ala) in exon 1 and several other single base changes in the promoter region [22].
the promoter region : Mouse strains homozygous for an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region are shown as open bars and strains homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bars.
41
IOP : To determine if allelic variation in the mouse Myoc gene associated with IOP in mouse strains, we analyzed the gene in an assortment of strains with different IOPs.
IOP : The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).  Figure 8  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
IOP : The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).  Figure 8  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
42
Figure : The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).  Figure 8  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
Figure 8 : The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).  Figure 8  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
43
Myoc : The presence or absence of this allele does not associate with IOP as it is present in strains with a range of IOPs (Figure 8).  Figure 8  Myoc alleles do not associate with IOP.
Myoc :  Sequencing identified two alleles of Myoc in these mouse strains (see text).
44
several tested strains : In support of a later effect of anesthesia (since general anesthesia is reported to mask diurnal variation in IOP [21]), we identified increased IOP during the dark compared to the light period of the day in several tested strains (Figure 6).
these mouse strains :  Sequencing identified two alleles of Myoc in these mouse strains (see text).
45
an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region : Mouse strains homozygous for an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region are shown as open bars and strains homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bars.
the allele without this insertion : Mouse strains homozygous for an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region are shown as open bars and strains homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bars.
46
a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region : Mouse strains homozygous for an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region are shown as open bars and strains homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bars.
this insertion : Mouse strains homozygous for an allele having a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region are shown as open bars and strains homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bars.
47
strain 129/Ola : To test if the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola alters IOP in relation to that of strain B6, we compared the IOPs of pure B6 males and consomic B6 males that had the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome (backcrossed for 11 generations).
Ola : To test if the Y chromosome of strain 129/Ola alters IOP in relation to that of strain B6, we compared the IOPs of pure B6 males and consomic B6 males that had the 129P2/Ola Y chromosome (backcrossed for 11 generations).
Ola : There is no difference in IOP between 3 to 4 month old males with either the 129P2/Ola (n = 18) or C57BL/6J (n = 20) Y chromosome (Y Chr).
Car2 : We also thank Jane Barker for the Car2 mice, Marianna Mertts for her help with analysis of Myoc alleles, and members of the John laboratory, Tatyana Golovkina, Edward Leiter and Timothy O'Brien for critical reading of the manuscript.
48
Y chromosome : There is no difference in IOP between 3 to 4 month old males with either the 129P2/Ola (n = 18) or C57BL/6J (n = 20) Y chromosome (Y Chr).
The 129 Y Chr : The 129 Y Chr had been backcrossed to strain C57BL/6J for 11 generations.
49
4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) : However, 4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) had significantly higher IOPs than their heterozygous age and sex matched littermates.
their : However, 4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) had significantly higher IOPs than their heterozygous age and sex matched littermates.
50
the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db : However, 4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) had significantly higher IOPs than their heterozygous age and sex matched littermates.
the Car2 gene : Car2  To test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase II leads to decreased IOP, we analyzed mice of a B6 background that were genetically similar but with normal or mutant alleles of the Car2 gene [25,26].
51
B6 mice that were either pigmented or albino : IOP was modestly but significantly elevated in obese, diabetic homozygous mutants (14.7 ± 0.3 mmHg) compared to non-obese, non-diabetic heterozygotes (13.4 ± 0.4 mmHg, P < 0.01, Figure 9).  Tyr  To determine if albinism alters IOP, we analyzed B6 mice that were either pigmented or albino.
The albino mice : The albino mice were homozygous and coisogenic for a mutant allele of tyrosinase (Tyrc-2J) that arose on the otherwise pigmented B6 background.
the albino B6 mice : In contrast to pigmented B6 mice (Figure 6), the IOPs of the albino B6 mice were not increased at measurement during the dark compared to light period of the day (P = 0.6, Figure 10B).
52
the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) : However, 4 months old males homozygous for the Lepr diabetes and obesity causing mutation (db) had significantly higher IOPs than their heterozygous age and sex matched littermates.
a mutant allele of tyrosinase (Tyrc-2J) that arose on the otherwise pigmented B6 background : The albino mice were homozygous and coisogenic for a mutant allele of tyrosinase (Tyrc-2J) that arose on the otherwise pigmented B6 background.
Tyrc-2J : In 2 month old mice, homozygosity for Tyrc-2J resulted in increased IOP (14.2 ± 0.4 mmHg) compared to wild type, pigmented mice (12.4 ± 0.3 mmHg, P < 0.0001).
the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation : Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation have higher IOP than their normal counterparts at all tested ages.
53
B6 : The albino mice were homozygous and coisogenic for a mutant allele of tyrosinase (Tyrc-2J) that arose on the otherwise pigmented B6 background.
B6 : In contrast to pigmented B6 mice (Figure 6), the IOPs of the albino B6 mice were not increased at measurement during the dark compared to light period of the day (P = 0.6, Figure 10B).
Car2 : It also is possible that CAII substantially contributes to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse CAIV is sufficient to prevent an effect of CAII deficiency on IOP in Car2 mutant mice.
54
145 strain DBA/2J mice : Similar results were obtained using 161 strain 129P3/J and 145 strain DBA/2J mice with the 1X dose (129P3/J, P = 0.1; DBA/2J, P = 0.2).
pigmented B6 mice : In contrast to pigmented B6 mice (Figure 6), the IOPs of the albino B6 mice were not increased at measurement during the dark compared to light period of the day (P = 0.6, Figure 10B).
55
Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation : Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation have higher IOP than their normal counterparts at all tested ages.
their : Different cohorts of C57BL/6J mice that are homozygous for the spontaneous Tyrc-2J mutation have higher IOP than their normal counterparts at all tested ages.
All groups : All groups consisted of male and female mice.
56
the dark period of the day : B. IOP is not increased during the dark period of the day in Tyrc-2J homozygotes.
the light period : The number of mice analyzed during the light period were: 2 month, 28 +/+, 29 c-2J/c-2J, 4 month, 20 +/+ and 20 c-2J/c-2J, 8 month, 15 +/+ and 15 c-2J/c-2J.
the dark period of the day : Fourteen mice of each genotype were successfully analyzed during the dark period of the day.
57
IOP differences between strains : The magnitude of IOP differences between strains and the good reproducibility of readings over time will allow the use of genetic approaches to identify genes that underlie these differences.
these differences : The magnitude of IOP differences between strains and the good reproducibility of readings over time will allow the use of genetic approaches to identify genes that underlie these differences.
these risk factors : Further experiments with obese non-diabetic or diabetic non-obese mice will help to characterize the separate effects of these risk factors.
58
quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis methods : Thus it is feasible to assess sufficient numbers of mice for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis methods and to use these methods to identify chromosomal regions contributing to strain differences in IOP.
these methods : Thus it is feasible to assess sufficient numbers of mice for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis methods and to use these methods to identify chromosomal regions contributing to strain differences in IOP.
59
These : These are important approaches as they may allow the association of genes with IOP and glaucoma whose currently known functions do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates.
they : These are important approaches as they may allow the association of genes with IOP and glaucoma whose currently known functions do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates.
60
they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates : These are important approaches as they may allow the association of genes with IOP and glaucoma whose currently known functions do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates.
them : These are important approaches as they may allow the association of genes with IOP and glaucoma whose currently known functions do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamics or do not immediately identify them as likely glaucoma candidates.
61
IOP : Ketamine usually appears to increase IOP [31-33], but there are reports of ketamine having no effect on IOP or even reducing IOP [31,34].
IOP : Ketamine usually appears to increase IOP [31-33], but there are reports of ketamine having no effect on IOP or even reducing IOP [31,34].
IOP : Ketamine usually appears to increase IOP [31-33], but there are reports of ketamine having no effect on IOP or even reducing IOP [31,34].
62
IOP :  No effect of anesthetic protocol on IOP during a 12 minute measurement window  Many anesthetic agents including xylazine lower IOP.
IOP : An anesthetic effect could potentially alter IOP and mask genetically determined differences in IOP.
IOP : An anesthetic effect could potentially alter IOP and mask genetically determined differences in IOP.
IOP : Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
IOP : Here, we show that, despite a depressant effect on IOP by 25 minutes, our anesthetic protocol has no detectable effect on IOP during the first 12 minutes after administration.
IOP : Thus, to avoid effects of anesthesia on IOP, all measurements should be made within a window of up to 12 minutes after anesthetic administration.
IOP : Thus, albinism can affect the diurnal pattern of IOP changes.
IOP : Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
IOP : Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
IOP : Exposing rats to 24 hours of low light abrogates the diurnal fluctuation of IOP and results in constantly elevated IOP [36].
IOP : Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
IOP : Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
IOP : A broad range of reproducible IOP differences exists between inbred mouse strains and a diurnal rhythm of IOP exists in different strains.
Myoc : We also thank Jane Barker for the Car2 mice, Marianna Mertts for her help with analysis of Myoc alleles, and members of the John laboratory, Tatyana Golovkina, Edward Leiter and Timothy O'Brien for critical reading of the manuscript.
63
An anesthetic effect : An anesthetic effect could potentially alter IOP and mask genetically determined differences in IOP.
this effect : Therefore, it is very important to understand this effect.
64
IOP : In contrast, intraperitoneally administered ketamine (100 mg/kg) was shown to rapidly decrease IOP in a different rat study [36].
IOP : IOP decreased significantly between a conscious measurement and the first possible measurement under anesthesia (defined as time 0).
IOP : IOP decreased further by the next reading (at 5 minutes) after which it remained stable for the duration of the experiment (20 minutes)[36].
it : IOP decreased further by the next reading (at 5 minutes) after which it remained stable for the duration of the experiment (20 minutes)[36].
IOP : Thus, although both rat and mouse studies show that anesthesia decreases IOP, the studies do not agree on the timing of the effect.
The IOP depression : The IOP depression occurred very soon after anesthesia in the rats but was delayed in the mice.
elevated IOP : Similarly, the effects of various factors including age, gender, blood pressure, obesity and diabetes have been variably associated with elevated IOP.
65
that study : In that study, anesthesia had a minor effect on blood pressure during the first 15 minutes following injection but a strong hypotensive effect between 15 and 30 minutes that continued for more than an hour [35].
that study : The time 0 measurement in that study was at a very similar state of anesthesia as our 4 and 5 minute time points (starting as soon as possible and within 20 to 60 seconds of adequate anesthesia), and the 5 minute rat time point was similar to our 9 and 10 minute measurement times.
66
factors such as diabetes, vascular hypertension, arterial hypotension, vasospasm, aberrant autoregulation of blood flow and sex in glaucoma : Some epidemiological studies implicate factors such as diabetes, vascular hypertension, arterial hypotension, vasospasm, aberrant autoregulation of blood flow and sex in glaucoma.
these factors : Other studies find no association between these factors and glaucoma [2,46-48].
67
various factors including age, gender, blood pressure, obesity and diabetes : Similarly, the effects of various factors including age, gender, blood pressure, obesity and diabetes have been variably associated with elevated IOP.
these latter factors : We evaluated the relationship between these latter factors and IOP in genetically homogeneous mouse strains in a controlled environment.
68
decreased : Although within the range of variability observed in young mice, the IOP of B6 mice modestly decreased around 1 year of age.
This decrease : This decrease was statistically significant compared to young mice measured at the same time.
69
the IOP of B6 mice : Although within the range of variability observed in young mice, the IOP of B6 mice modestly decreased around 1 year of age.
the IOP of B6 mice : At 2 years of age the IOP of B6 mice had decreased further, though an effect of anesthesia in these very old mice cannot be ruled out [49].
70
B6 mice : Although within the range of variability observed in young mice, the IOP of B6 mice modestly decreased around 1 year of age.
B6 mice : At 2 years of age the IOP of B6 mice had decreased further, though an effect of anesthesia in these very old mice cannot be ruled out [49].
these very old mice : At 2 years of age the IOP of B6 mice had decreased further, though an effect of anesthesia in these very old mice cannot be ruled out [49].
B6 mice : Further studies of B6 mice may allow experimental investigation of this effect.
71
correlates : Decreasing IOP correlates with increasing age in the human Japanese population [50,51].
this effect : Further studies of B6 mice may allow experimental investigation of this effect.
72
All IOPs : All IOPs were assessed using an anesthetic regime of 99 mg/kg ketamine and 9 mg/kg xylazine (defined as 1X).
the examined strains : In the examined strains, we found no consistent differences in IOP between males and females.
the 3 strains that were aged to 18 months or older : This was true at all ages for the 3 strains that were aged to 18 months or older.
73
no consistent differences in IOP between males and females : In the examined strains, we found no consistent differences in IOP between males and females.
This : This was true at all ages for the 3 strains that were aged to 18 months or older.
74
was : This was true at all ages for the 3 strains that were aged to 18 months or older.
This : This is in agreement with a number of human studies, which show that IOP is equal between the sexes [52,53].
75
groups of mice that were genetically similar : To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
they : To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
these mouse strains : Analysis of these mouse strains may increase understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP and that may be relevant to glaucoma.
76
compared : To test if genetic perturbations that cause obesity and diabetes can alter IOP, we compared groups of mice that were genetically similar except that they were either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation (db) that results in early onset obesity and diabetes.
this work : Thus, epidemiological associations between increased IOP and obesity or diabetes are supported by this work and appear to be functionally relevant.
77
the dark period : We first suspected IOP changes with time of day when the IOP of a group of B6 mice measured in the hour prior to onset of the dark period appeared to be higher than at other times of day.
the dark period : Previously, a rise of IOP was reported to occur before onset of the dark period in rats [21], and rats and rabbits were shown to have higher IOP during the dark period compared to the light period [21,68,69].
the dark period : Previously, a rise of IOP was reported to occur before onset of the dark period in rats [21], and rats and rabbits were shown to have higher IOP during the dark period compared to the light period [21,68,69].
78
the light period : Previously, a rise of IOP was reported to occur before onset of the dark period in rats [21], and rats and rabbits were shown to have higher IOP during the dark period compared to the light period [21,68,69].
the light period : Thus, we compared the IOPs of mice at different times of day and identified several strains with significantly higher IOP during the dark compared to the light period.
79
functional rod and cone photoreceptors : The IOP increase in the dark is not dependent on functional rod and cone photoreceptors since these cells degenerate in SWR/J mice due to homozygosity for the Pde6brd1 mutation.
these cells : The IOP increase in the dark is not dependent on functional rod and cone photoreceptors since these cells degenerate in SWR/J mice due to homozygosity for the Pde6brd1 mutation.
80
degenerate : The IOP increase in the dark is not dependent on functional rod and cone photoreceptors since these cells degenerate in SWR/J mice due to homozygosity for the Pde6brd1 mutation.
this finding : In agreement with this finding, circadian regulation of wheel running by light was previously reported in mice lacking rods and cones [70].
81
the diurnal rhythm of intraocular pressure in mice : Further more detailed studies are needed to define the characteristics of the diurnal rhythm of intraocular pressure in mice, and to determine whether it is lacking or has a different timing in strain CBA/CaJ.
it : Further more detailed studies are needed to define the characteristics of the diurnal rhythm of intraocular pressure in mice, and to determine whether it is lacking or has a different timing in strain CBA/CaJ.
82
the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP : Analysis of these mouse strains may increase understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP and that may be relevant to glaucoma.
that : Analysis of these mouse strains may increase understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling diurnal rhythms of IOP and that may be relevant to glaucoma.
83
aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary processes :  Car2 deficiency does not alter IOP  Bicarbonate formation is important for aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary processes and carbonic anhydrase (CA) facilitates this secretion.
this secretion :  Car2 deficiency does not alter IOP  Bicarbonate formation is important for aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary processes and carbonic anhydrase (CA) facilitates this secretion.
84
the ciliary processes :  Car2 deficiency does not alter IOP  Bicarbonate formation is important for aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary processes and carbonic anhydrase (CA) facilitates this secretion.
the ciliary processes : There are multiple forms of CA and the CAII isoform is reported to be the predominant form in the ciliary processes [71,72].
the ciliary processes : CAIV activity was recently demonstrated in the ciliary processes [73] and so our data may support a more substantial role for CAIV compared to CAII in aqueous humor secretion.
85
CAIV : CAIV activity was recently demonstrated in the ciliary processes [73] and so our data may support a more substantial role for CAIV compared to CAII in aqueous humor secretion.
CAIV : CAIV activity was recently demonstrated in the ciliary processes [73] and so our data may support a more substantial role for CAIV compared to CAII in aqueous humor secretion.
86
CA : There are multiple forms of CA and the CAII isoform is reported to be the predominant form in the ciliary processes [71,72].
CA : In support of a role for both enzymes, a greater than 90% inhibition of CA is required for significant reduction of aqueous secretion [71,72].  Tyrosinase deficiency results in increased IOP  Tyrosinase is the first enzyme of the pigment production pathway.
87
otherwise genetically identical pigmented B6 mice : Here, we show increased IOP in mice lacking tyrosinase activity compared to otherwise genetically identical pigmented B6 mice.
the albino B6 mice : Additionally, IOP differences between the light and dark period of the day were detected in the pigmented but not the albino B6 mice.
88
affect : Thus, albinism can affect the diurnal pattern of IOP changes.
this result : In agreement with this result, mice with albino eyes that are homozygous for tyrosinase or pink eye dilution mutations have altered diurnal rhythms compared to pigmented mice [75].
89
Albinism : Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
itself : Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
90
the diurnal rhythm of IOP : Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
it : Albinism by itself is either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of IOP or alters it in different ways depending upon genetic background, however, since the albino strains BALB/cByJ and SWR/J had increased IOP during the dark.
91
the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice : Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
its : Further experiments will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of IOP in the albino B6 mice and if its alteration or other mechanisms result in IOP elevation.
92
Various factors : Various factors have been variably associated with risk for increased IOP in humans.
these risk factors : Genetically uniform, mice can be used to study the effects of these risk factors on IOP.
93
IOP : In trained hands, our measurement procedure is reliable, accurate and rapid enough to allow large scale genetic studies of factors determining IOP.
IOP : Mice have great potential for helping to characterize the molecular mechanisms affecting IOP.
94
Mice : Mice were housed in cages containing white pine bedding and covered with polyester filters.
the mice : For most experiments, the mice were fed NIH31 (6 % fat) chow ad libitum, and their water was acidified to pH 2.8 to 3.2.
their : For most experiments, the mice were fed NIH31 (6 % fat) chow ad libitum, and their water was acidified to pH 2.8 to 3.2.
95
B6 mice : B6 mice develop diet induced diabetes when maintained on a high fat diet [76].
the B6 mice in the aging experiment : To ensure that we were analyzing the effect of age and not diabetes, the B6 mice in the aging experiment were fed NIH31 (4% fat) chow.
96
CBA/CaJ, which has one of the highest daytime IOPs : Interestingly, the IOP of strain CBA/CaJ, which has one of the highest daytime IOPs does not appear to increase in the dark.
NIH31 : To ensure that we were analyzing the effect of age and not diabetes, the B6 mice in the aging experiment were fed NIH31 (4% fat) chow.
97
cages : Mice were housed in cages containing white pine bedding and covered with polyester filters.
the cages : The mice were group housed and the cages were changed one time per week.
98
strain B6 : To identify any early window when it may be possible to assess IOP without an obvious anesthetic effect, 195 mice of strain B6 were anesthetized with the 1X dose and IOP was measured at 1 minute time points between 4 and 12 minutes after administration (Figure 5).
The colony : The colony was monitored for specific pathogens by The Jackson Laboratory's routine surveillance program (see  for specific pathogens).  Intraocular pressure  Intraocular pressures were measured as described elsewhere [13,77].
99
dim red lights : The room was equipped with dim red lights and mice were protected from all light exposure during set up.
the red light : Each mouse was briefly exposed to the red light when the anesthetic agents were administered.
100
Each mouse : Each mouse was briefly exposed to the red light when the anesthetic agents were administered.
the mouse : When adequate anesthesia was achieved (after 3 to 4 minutes), the mouse was placed on the measurement platform and the white light of the microscope was turned on (for approximately 1 and a half minutes) to allow ocular cannulation, IOP measurement and post-measurement tests [13] that guard against artifactual data.
101
the white light of the microscope : When adequate anesthesia was achieved (after 3 to 4 minutes), the mouse was placed on the measurement platform and the white light of the microscope was turned on (for approximately 1 and a half minutes) to allow ocular cannulation, IOP measurement and post-measurement tests [13] that guard against artifactual data.
The white light : The white light was used at very low intensity and was dim but we cannot rule out the possibility that this brief exposure altered the IOP.
102
4% paraformaldehyde : Eyes from at least 2 mice of the listed strains were fixed (4% paraformaldehyde or Fekete's acid-alcohol-formalin fixative) processed, paraffin embedded and sectioned as previously reported [15,79], except that the paraformaldehyde was buffered with 0.1 M phosphate buffer.
the paraformaldehyde : Eyes from at least 2 mice of the listed strains were fixed (4% paraformaldehyde or Fekete's acid-alcohol-formalin fixative) processed, paraffin embedded and sectioned as previously reported [15,79], except that the paraformaldehyde was buffered with 0.1 M phosphate buffer.
103
Saggital sections including the pupil and optic nerve : Saggital sections including the pupil and optic nerve were collected and analyzed as they contain most ocular structures.
they : Saggital sections including the pupil and optic nerve were collected and analyzed as they contain most ocular structures.
104
Myoc :  Analysis of Myoc  Exons and the proximal promoter of the mouse Myoc gene were amplified from mouse genomic DNA using the following combinations of primers:  Exon 1: 5'-cttgcaggagaactttccagaa-3' and 5'-atctcgaaggagattgttatagg-3'  5'-gaccagctggagacccaaaccag-3' and 5'-gctcagatccactgacctaaa-3'  Exon 2: 5'-tgaagccatactttaccaaccat-3' and 5'-caaaagggagaagtctaacttc-3'
Myoc :  Analysis of Myoc  Exons and the proximal promoter of the mouse Myoc gene were amplified from mouse genomic DNA using the following combinations of primers:  Exon 1: 5'-cttgcaggagaactttccagaa-3' and 5'-atctcgaaggagattgttatagg-3'  5'-gaccagctggagacccaaaccag-3' and 5'-gctcagatccactgacctaaa-3'  Exon 2: 5'-tgaagccatactttaccaaccat-3' and 5'-caaaagggagaagtctaacttc-3'
105
Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith : The PCR products we purified and sequenced as described [22].  Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
their : The PCR products we purified and sequenced as described [22].  Abbreviations  Intraocular pressure (IOP), C57BL/6J (B6), chromosome (Chr), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), carbonic anhydrase (CA)  Acknowledgments  We thank Norma Buckley, Felicia Farley and Jennifer Smith for their assistance with data entry, references, and figures.
106
Marianna Mertts : We also thank Jane Barker for the Car2 mice, Marianna Mertts for her help with analysis of Myoc alleles, and members of the John laboratory, Tatyana Golovkina, Edward Leiter and Timothy O'Brien for critical reading of the manuscript.
her : We also thank Jane Barker for the Car2 mice, Marianna Mertts for her help with analysis of Myoc alleles, and members of the John laboratory, Tatyana Golovkina, Edward Leiter and Timothy O'Brien for critical reading of the manuscript.
