0
MLIV) : Cloning and characterization of the mouse Mcoln1 gene reveals an alternatively spliced transcript not seen in humans  Abstract  Background  Mucolipidosis type IV (MLIV) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by severe neurologic and ophthalmologic abnormalities.
MLIV : Recently the MLIV gene, MCOLN1, has been identified as a new member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channel superfamily.
MLIV : While identification of Mcoln1 is crucial to the development of mouse models for MLIV, the fact that there are two transcripts in mice suggests an additional or alternate function of the gene that may complicate phenotypic assessment.
MLIV : Patients with MLIV do not show mucopolysaccharide excretion, skeletal changes, or organomegaly like the other mucolipidoses.
MLIV : A recent report estimates that the carrier frequency of MLIV in the Ashkenazi Jewish population is 1 in 100, and mutations have been reported in Jewish and non-Jewish families [6-9].  
MLIV : Protein trafficking studies suggest that MLIV is the result of a defect in the late endocytic pathway, contrary to the other mucolipidoses which are typically caused by defective lysosomal hydrolases [11,12].
MLIV : Cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue of MCOLN1 is crucial for the development of mouse models of MLIV to further study this disorder.
this disorder : Cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue of MCOLN1 is crucial for the development of mouse models of MLIV to further study this disorder.
the gene : Comparison of the cDNA sequence to the BAC clone showed that the gene consists of 14 exons.
MCOLN1 : TMPred analysis  predicts a protein structure that is nearly identical to MCOLN1, containing 6 transmembrane domains with the N- and C-termini residing in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2) [9].
Mcoln1 isoform 1 : Comparison of Mcoln1 isoform 1 to its human homologue shows striking similarity at both the amino acid and nucleotide level.
its : Comparison of Mcoln1 isoform 1 to its human homologue shows striking similarity at both the amino acid and nucleotide level.
MCOLN1 : This speculation is supported by work with cup-5[13], the c. elegans homologue of MCOLN1, since cellular localization studies suggest that the protein is found in the late endosomes and/or lysosomes.  
the protein : This speculation is supported by work with cup-5[13], the c. elegans homologue of MCOLN1, since cellular localization studies suggest that the protein is found in the late endosomes and/or lysosomes.  
this protein : We speculate that this protein may have similar channel function but an alternate subcellular localization, but this must be proven once isoform-specific antibodies are raised.
1
the mouse Mcoln1 gene : Cloning and characterization of the mouse Mcoln1 gene reveals an alternatively spliced transcript not seen in humans  Abstract  Background  Mucolipidosis type IV (MLIV) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by severe neurologic and ophthalmologic abnormalities.
the MLIV gene, MCOLN1, : Recently the MLIV gene, MCOLN1, has been identified as a new member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channel superfamily.
the mouse homologue, Mcoln1 : Here we report the cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue, Mcoln1, and report a novel splice variant that is not seen in humans.  Results  The human and mouse genes display a high degree of synteny.
Mcoln1 : Mcoln1 shows 91% amino acid and 86% nucleotide identity to MCOLN1.
MCOLN1 : Mcoln1 shows 91% amino acid and 86% nucleotide identity to MCOLN1.
Mcoln1 : Also, Mcoln1 maps to chromosome 8 and contains an open reading frame of 580 amino acids, with a transcript length of approximately 2 kb encoded by 14 exons, similar to its human counterpart.
its : Also, Mcoln1 maps to chromosome 8 and contains an open reading frame of 580 amino acids, with a transcript length of approximately 2 kb encoded by 14 exons, similar to its human counterpart.
Mcoln1 : Conclusions  Mcoln1 is highly similar to MCOLN1, especially in the transmembrane domains and ion pore region.
MCOLN1 : Conclusions  Mcoln1 is highly similar to MCOLN1, especially in the transmembrane domains and ion pore region.
Mcoln1 : While identification of Mcoln1 is crucial to the development of mouse models for MLIV, the fact that there are two transcripts in mice suggests an additional or alternate function of the gene that may complicate phenotypic assessment.
the gene : While identification of Mcoln1 is crucial to the development of mouse models for MLIV, the fact that there are two transcripts in mice suggests an additional or alternate function of the gene that may complicate phenotypic assessment.
MCOLN1 : Cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue of MCOLN1 is crucial for the development of mouse models of MLIV to further study this disorder.
MCOLN1 : Cloning and mapping of the mouse homologue Mcoln1  In order to clone the mouse homologue of MCOLN1, the human amino acid sequence was compared to the high throughput genomic sequence (HTGS) database using TBLASTN, which identified the mouse BAC clone RPCI-23_387H4 (GB No. AC079544.1).
Mcoln1 : (B) The transcript map of Mcoln1 shows 14 exons, and the locations of the probes used in this study are illustrated.
Mcoln1 : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
Mcoln1 : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
Mcoln1 : The transcript map of the region surrounding Mcoln1 is similar to the corresponding region of the homologous human MCOLN1 region [15], and the presence of the zinc finger gene and Nte confirms and extends the region of synteny between human chromosome 19 and mouse chromosome 8.
Mcoln1 :  Characterization of Mcoln1  Comparison of the mouse and human peptide sequences showed 91% identity (Fig. 2).
Mcoln1 : The C. elegans homologue cup-5 shows 34% identity with Mcoln1 and BLASTP analysis of Mcoln1 identified a putative Drosophila melanogaster homologue that shows 38% identity (Fig. 2).
Mcoln1 : The C. elegans homologue cup-5 shows 34% identity with Mcoln1 and BLASTP analysis of Mcoln1 identified a putative Drosophila melanogaster homologue that shows 38% identity (Fig. 2).
Mcoln1 : Figure 2  Peptide sequence comparison of Mcoln1 to human, D. melanogaster, and C. elegans (cup-5) homologues.
Mcoln1 :  Expression analysis of Mcoln1  Mouse adult multiple tissue and embryonic Northern blots were hybridized using a probe generated from mouse exon 2 (probe 1, Fig. 1B), yielding a band of approximately 2.4 kb (isoform 1), as expected, and a less abundant and unexpected 4.4 kb band (isoform 2) (Figs. 3A &3B).
Mcoln1 : It is obvious from our results, however, that the identification of this sequence as a full-length protein is incorrect since probes unique to the clone, as well as probes containing the Mcoln1 coding sequence, identify the same transcripts.
Mcoln1 : Comparison of Mcoln1 isoform 1 to its human homologue shows striking similarity at both the amino acid and nucleotide level.
Mcoln1 : The mouse Mcoln1 gene has two alternatively spliced isoforms, with isoform 2 having a different c-terminal cytoplasmic tail.
Mcoln1 : However, our results suggest that phenotypic assessment of Mcoln1 knock-out mice may be complicated and that care must be taken when interpreting data on mouse gene expression and phenotype.
Mcoln1 : Interestingly, the second Mcoln1 isoform is not seen in humans and the sequence of the alternatively spliced region is not conserved between man and mouse.
2
an alternatively spliced transcript not seen in humans   : Cloning and characterization of the mouse Mcoln1 gene reveals an alternatively spliced transcript not seen in humans  Abstract  Background  Mucolipidosis type IV (MLIV) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by severe neurologic and ophthalmologic abnormalities.
The transcript that results from murine specific alternative splicing : The transcript that results from murine specific alternative splicing encodes a 611 amino acid protein that differs at the c-terminus.
3
a 611 amino acid protein that differs at the c-terminus : The transcript that results from murine specific alternative splicing encodes a 611 amino acid protein that differs at the c-terminus.
the protein : Also, the late endosomal/lysosomal targeting signal is conserved, supporting the hypothesis that the protein is localized to these vesicle membranes.
4
is : Protein trafficking studies suggest that MLIV is the result of a defect in the late endocytic pathway, contrary to the other mucolipidoses which are typically caused by defective lysosomal hydrolases [11,12].
this hypothesis : Recent work in Caenorhabditis elegans supports this hypothesis.
5
The human gene MCOLN1 (GenBank #AF287270) : The human gene MCOLN1 (GenBank #AF287270) maps to chromosome 19p13.2-13.3 and encodes a novel protein that is a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channel gene superfamily [7-10].
this gene : Loss of function mutants of the MCOLN1 C. elegans homologue, cup-5, result in an increased rate of endocytosis, accumulation of large vacuoles, and a decreased rate of endocytosed protein breakdown; while over-expression of this gene reverses the phenotype [13].
6
the mouse homologue of MCOLN1 : Cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue of MCOLN1 is crucial for the development of mouse models of MLIV to further study this disorder.
the mouse homologue Mcoln1  In order to clone the mouse homologue of MCOLN1 : Cloning and mapping of the mouse homologue Mcoln1  In order to clone the mouse homologue of MCOLN1, the human amino acid sequence was compared to the high throughput genomic sequence (HTGS) database using TBLASTN, which identified the mouse BAC clone RPCI-23_387H4 (GB No. AC079544.1).
7
the mouse BAC clone RPCI-23_387H4 (GB No. AC079544.1 : Cloning and mapping of the mouse homologue Mcoln1  In order to clone the mouse homologue of MCOLN1, the human amino acid sequence was compared to the high throughput genomic sequence (HTGS) database using TBLASTN, which identified the mouse BAC clone RPCI-23_387H4 (GB No. AC079544.1).
this BAC : Correspondence with the Joint Genome Institute and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) Human Genome Center confirmed the location of this BAC to mouse chromosome 8 and allowed us to construct a physical map of this region [14] (Fig. 1A).
8
we : Here we report the cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue, Mcoln1, and report a novel splice variant that is not seen in humans.  Results  The human and mouse genes display a high degree of synteny.
us : Correspondence with the Joint Genome Institute and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) Human Genome Center confirmed the location of this BAC to mouse chromosome 8 and allowed us to construct a physical map of this region [14] (Fig. 1A).
this study : (B) The transcript map of Mcoln1 shows 14 exons, and the locations of the probes used in this study are illustrated.
We : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
we : Since the human MCOLN1 gene encodes a single transcript [7-9], we carried out additional hybridizations with probes generated from various regions of the coding sequence and 3' UTR, and all probes identified the same two transcripts in the mouse (data not shown).
we : In order to verify the presence of a single mouse locus, we hybridized a mouse Southern blot with the exon 2 probe.
we :  Characterization of the Mcoln1 alternative splice variant  In order to determine the coding sequence for the larger transcript, we searched the mouse EST database using each intron as well as the genomic sequence flanking the Mcoln1 gene.
we : Next, we directly compared the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of the alternatively spliced mouse transcript to the entire human MCOLN1 genomic sequence and found no significant similarity.
we : In addition, we hybridized a human multiple tissue Northern and human Southern with a probe in human intron 12 that is adjacent to exon 13.
our : It is obvious from our results, however, that the identification of this sequence as a full-length protein is incorrect since probes unique to the clone, as well as probes containing the Mcoln1 coding sequence, identify the same transcripts.
We : We speculate that this protein may have similar channel function but an alternate subcellular localization, but this must be proven once isoform-specific antibodies are raised.
our : However, our results suggest that phenotypic assessment of Mcoln1 knock-out mice may be complicated and that care must be taken when interpreting data on mouse gene expression and phenotype.
We : We conducted database searches using BLAST  and Draft Human Genome Browser .
We : We performed motif searches using ProfileScan  and TMPred  and alignment of protein sequences using Pileup (GCG) and Boxshade .
9
mouse chromosome 8 : Correspondence with the Joint Genome Institute and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) Human Genome Center confirmed the location of this BAC to mouse chromosome 8 and allowed us to construct a physical map of this region [14] (Fig. 1A).
this region : Correspondence with the Joint Genome Institute and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) Human Genome Center confirmed the location of this BAC to mouse chromosome 8 and allowed us to construct a physical map of this region [14] (Fig. 1A).
10
multiple ESTs : The BAC sequence was then compared to the mouse EST database using BLASTN, and multiple ESTs and their corresponding I.M.A.G.E. clones were identified.
their : The BAC sequence was then compared to the mouse EST database using BLASTN, and multiple ESTs and their corresponding I.M.A.G.E. clones were identified.
11
transcript map of the Mcoln1 gene region : Figure 1  Physical and transcript map of the Mcoln1 gene region.
Physical map showing a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19, anchored by the genes Insr and Nte : (A) Physical map showing a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19, anchored by the genes Insr and Nte.
12
a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19, anchored by the genes Insr and Nte : (A) Physical map showing a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19, anchored by the genes Insr and Nte.
The region : The region is covered by three BACs: RPCI-23_334D24 (AC087153), RPCI-23_312B8 (AC087150), and RPCI-23_387H4 (AC079544).
13
The transcript map of Mcoln1 : (B) The transcript map of Mcoln1 shows 14 exons, and the locations of the probes used in this study are illustrated.
The map : The map also shows the expanded exon 13 in the alternatively spliced transcript (hashed box).
the transcript map : It should be noted that the scale of the transcript map is in reference to the 201 kb scale of BAC RPCI-23_387H4.
14
UniGene : UniGene cluster Mm.39099 is the homologue of the human zinc finger gene (AC001252).
UniGene : Three clones (ID Nos. 604971, 1228665, 1247566) from the UniGene cluster Mm. 8356 were obtained, sequenced, and assembled into a 2 kb transcript with an open reading frame of 580 amino acids designated Mcoln1 (GB No. AF302010).
15
the Mcoln1 gene region : Figure 1  Physical and transcript map of the Mcoln1 gene region.
the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
this alternatively spliced transcript : The open reading frame of this alternatively spliced transcript is 611 amino acids, 28 amino acids longer than the message encoded by the 2.4 kb transcript.
the alternatively spliced mouse transcript : Next, we directly compared the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of the alternatively spliced mouse transcript to the entire human MCOLN1 genomic sequence and found no significant similarity.
the alternate mouse transcript : The probe was located in the region syntenic to that which encodes the alternate mouse transcript.
this alternative transcript : Only the expected bands were detected on the Southern and no bands were detected on the Northern, confirming that this alternative transcript is specific to murine Mcoln1.
the alternate Mcoln1 transcript : Recent BLASTP analysis of the alternate Mcoln1 transcript yields a match to a putative 145 amino acid anonymous protein (GB No. BAB25862) predicted from a RIKEN clone.
16
mouse chromosome 8 : (A) Physical map showing a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19, anchored by the genes Insr and Nte.
mouse chromosome 8 : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
17
UniGene cluster Mm.39099 : UniGene cluster Mm.39099 is the homologue of the human zinc finger gene (AC001252).
the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099 : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
18
the human zinc finger gene (AC001252 : UniGene cluster Mm.39099 is the homologue of the human zinc finger gene (AC001252).
the human zinc finger gene : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
the human MCOLN1 gene : Since the human MCOLN1 gene encodes a single transcript [7-9], we carried out additional hybridizations with probes generated from various regions of the coding sequence and 3' UTR, and all probes identified the same two transcripts in the mouse (data not shown).
19
Nte : (A) Physical map showing a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19, anchored by the genes Insr and Nte.
Nte : We then created a transcript map of the Mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 (Fig. 1B), noting the presence of the UniGene Cluster Mm. 39099, a homologue of the human zinc finger gene (GB No. AC001252) that terminates approximately 1.8 kb before the start of Mcoln1; and Nte, the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene (NTE) beginning 130 base pairs after the polyadenylation signal for Mcoln1.
Nte : The transcript map of the region surrounding Mcoln1 is similar to the corresponding region of the homologous human MCOLN1 region [15], and the presence of the zinc finger gene and Nte confirms and extends the region of synteny between human chromosome 19 and mouse chromosome 8.
20
human chromosome 19 : (A) Physical map showing a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19, anchored by the genes Insr and Nte.
human chromosome 19 : The transcript map of the region surrounding Mcoln1 is similar to the corresponding region of the homologous human MCOLN1 region [15], and the presence of the zinc finger gene and Nte confirms and extends the region of synteny between human chromosome 19 and mouse chromosome 8.
mouse chromosome 8 : The transcript map of the region surrounding Mcoln1 is similar to the corresponding region of the homologous human MCOLN1 region [15], and the presence of the zinc finger gene and Nte confirms and extends the region of synteny between human chromosome 19 and mouse chromosome 8.
chromosome 8 : Four different restriction enzymes were used, and only the expected size bands for the chromosome 8 locus were detected (data not shown).  Figure 3  Northern analysis of Mcoln1.
the chromosome 8 locus : Four different restriction enzymes were used, and only the expected size bands for the chromosome 8 locus were detected (data not shown).  Figure 3  Northern analysis of Mcoln1.
21
Fig. 2 :  Characterization of Mcoln1  Comparison of the mouse and human peptide sequences showed 91% identity (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 : The C. elegans homologue cup-5 shows 34% identity with Mcoln1 and BLASTP analysis of Mcoln1 identified a putative Drosophila melanogaster homologue that shows 38% identity (Fig. 2).
. 2 : The C. elegans homologue cup-5 shows 34% identity with Mcoln1 and BLASTP analysis of Mcoln1 identified a putative Drosophila melanogaster homologue that shows 38% identity (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 : TMPred analysis  predicts a protein structure that is nearly identical to MCOLN1, containing 6 transmembrane domains with the N- and C-termini residing in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2) [9].
. 2 : TMPred analysis  predicts a protein structure that is nearly identical to MCOLN1, containing 6 transmembrane domains with the N- and C-termini residing in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2) [9].
Figure 2 : Figure 2  Peptide sequence comparison of Mcoln1 to human, D. melanogaster, and C. elegans (cup-5) homologues.
Fig. 3C : A mouse multiple tissue Northern was hybridized using a probe generated from the putative intron sequence in clone 408619 (Probe 2, Fig. 1B), which detected only the 4.4 kb band (Fig. 3C).  In order to determine the sequence of the entire transcript, RT-PCR using primers in exons 10 and 11 paired with a primer in intron 12 was performed using BALB/c mouse brain total RNA and the resulting products sequenced.
Figure 4 : Clontech Mouse RNA Master Blots were hybridized with the exon 2 and intron 12 probes mentioned above in an attempt to determine if these two transcripts showed differences in expression patterns, however, there was no significant difference in the 22 tissues represented (data not shown).  Figure 4  Peptide sequence comparison of the two alternatively spliced Mcoln1 isoforms.
22
a band of approximately 2.4 kb (isoform 1), as expected, and a less abundant and unexpected 4.4 kb band (isoform 2) (Figs. 3A &3B :  Expression analysis of Mcoln1  Mouse adult multiple tissue and embryonic Northern blots were hybridized using a probe generated from mouse exon 2 (probe 1, Fig. 1B), yielding a band of approximately 2.4 kb (isoform 1), as expected, and a less abundant and unexpected 4.4 kb band (isoform 2) (Figs. 3A &3B).
The 2.4 kb band : The 2.4 kb band shows ubiquitous but variable expression, with the highest expression in brain, liver and kidney.
The RT product : The RT product was used to confirm the alternatively spliced form using primers: 5'-CATCTACCTGGGCTATTGC-3' (forward) and 5'-GCTCTCAGGTGGTGGACAC-3' (reverse) in a PCR reaction with an annealing temperature of 61°C.
23
probes generated from various regions of the coding sequence and 3' UTR : Since the human MCOLN1 gene encodes a single transcript [7-9], we carried out additional hybridizations with probes generated from various regions of the coding sequence and 3' UTR, and all probes identified the same two transcripts in the mouse (data not shown).
all probes : Since the human MCOLN1 gene encodes a single transcript [7-9], we carried out additional hybridizations with probes generated from various regions of the coding sequence and 3' UTR, and all probes identified the same two transcripts in the mouse (data not shown).
24
TBLASTN : Cloning and mapping of the mouse homologue Mcoln1  In order to clone the mouse homologue of MCOLN1, the human amino acid sequence was compared to the high throughput genomic sequence (HTGS) database using TBLASTN, which identified the mouse BAC clone RPCI-23_387H4 (GB No. AC079544.1).
the exon 2 probe : In order to verify the presence of a single mouse locus, we hybridized a mouse Southern blot with the exon 2 probe.
25
Mcoln1 : Four different restriction enzymes were used, and only the expected size bands for the chromosome 8 locus were detected (data not shown).  Figure 3  Northern analysis of Mcoln1.
Mcoln1 :  Characterization of the Mcoln1 alternative splice variant  In order to determine the coding sequence for the larger transcript, we searched the mouse EST database using each intron as well as the genomic sequence flanking the Mcoln1 gene.
Mcoln1 :  Characterization of the Mcoln1 alternative splice variant  In order to determine the coding sequence for the larger transcript, we searched the mouse EST database using each intron as well as the genomic sequence flanking the Mcoln1 gene.
26
exon 13 : Clone 408619 (ESTs: GB No. AI430291, AI429558) begins approximately 1.1 kb before exon 13 and continues through the exon and splices correctly to exon 14.
exon 13 : Clone 1281641 (EST:GB No. AA874645) begins 175 bp before exon 13 and also splices correctly to exon 14.
27
Fig. 1B : (A) Mouse fetal tissue Northern and (B) mouse multiple tissue Northern blots (Clontech) hybridized with a probe generated from exon 2 (probe 1, Fig. 1B).
Fig. 1B : A mouse multiple tissue Northern was hybridized using a probe generated from the putative intron sequence in clone 408619 (Probe 2, Fig. 1B), which detected only the 4.4 kb band (Fig. 3C).  In order to determine the sequence of the entire transcript, RT-PCR using primers in exons 10 and 11 paired with a primer in intron 12 was performed using BALB/c mouse brain total RNA and the resulting products sequenced.
28
the larger transcript :  Characterization of the Mcoln1 alternative splice variant  In order to determine the coding sequence for the larger transcript, we searched the mouse EST database using each intron as well as the genomic sequence flanking the Mcoln1 gene.
the entire transcript : A mouse multiple tissue Northern was hybridized using a probe generated from the putative intron sequence in clone 408619 (Probe 2, Fig. 1B), which detected only the 4.4 kb band (Fig. 3C).  In order to determine the sequence of the entire transcript, RT-PCR using primers in exons 10 and 11 paired with a primer in intron 12 was performed using BALB/c mouse brain total RNA and the resulting products sequenced.
the larger transcript : These products show that the larger transcript is due to an alternative splice event that results in an expanded exon 13.
29
the 2.4 kb transcript : The open reading frame of this alternatively spliced transcript is 611 amino acids, 28 amino acids longer than the message encoded by the 2.4 kb transcript.
the 2.4 kb transcript : The 55 amino acid C-terminal cytoplasmic tail encoded by the 2.4 kb transcript is completely different from the 86 amino acid tail encoded by the murine specific 4.4 kb transcript (Fig. 4).
30
 The human and mouse genes : Here we report the cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue, Mcoln1, and report a novel splice variant that is not seen in humans.  Results  The human and mouse genes display a high degree of synteny.
these two transcripts : Clontech Mouse RNA Master Blots were hybridized with the exon 2 and intron 12 probes mentioned above in an attempt to determine if these two transcripts showed differences in expression patterns, however, there was no significant difference in the 22 tissues represented (data not shown).  Figure 4  Peptide sequence comparison of the two alternatively spliced Mcoln1 isoforms.
the two alternatively spliced Mcoln1 isoforms : Clontech Mouse RNA Master Blots were hybridized with the exon 2 and intron 12 probes mentioned above in an attempt to determine if these two transcripts showed differences in expression patterns, however, there was no significant difference in the 22 tissues represented (data not shown).  Figure 4  Peptide sequence comparison of the two alternatively spliced Mcoln1 isoforms.
31
Mcoln1 : TMPred analysis predicts that isoform 2 encodes a protein identical in structure to Mcoln1, possessing 6 transmembrane domains and a channel pore, however the protein sequences diverge at amino acid 526.
Mcoln1 : Clontech Mouse RNA Master Blots were hybridized with the exon 2 and intron 12 probes mentioned above in an attempt to determine if these two transcripts showed differences in expression patterns, however, there was no significant difference in the 22 tissues represented (data not shown).  Figure 4  Peptide sequence comparison of the two alternatively spliced Mcoln1 isoforms.
murine Mcoln1 : Only the expected bands were detected on the Southern and no bands were detected on the Northern, confirming that this alternative transcript is specific to murine Mcoln1.
Mcoln1 : Recent BLASTP analysis of the alternate Mcoln1 transcript yields a match to a putative 145 amino acid anonymous protein (GB No. BAB25862) predicted from a RIKEN clone.
32
MCOLN1 : Next, we directly compared the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of the alternatively spliced mouse transcript to the entire human MCOLN1 genomic sequence and found no significant similarity.
MCOLN1 : As mentioned previously, Northern blots performed with human MCOLN1 probes show only one 2.4 kb transcript.
33
a probe in human intron 12 that is adjacent to exon 13 : In addition, we hybridized a human multiple tissue Northern and human Southern with a probe in human intron 12 that is adjacent to exon 13.
The probe : The probe was located in the region syntenic to that which encodes the alternate mouse transcript.
34
human Southern : In addition, we hybridized a human multiple tissue Northern and human Southern with a probe in human intron 12 that is adjacent to exon 13.
the Southern : Only the expected bands were detected on the Southern and no bands were detected on the Northern, confirming that this alternative transcript is specific to murine Mcoln1.
35
Northern : In addition, we hybridized a human multiple tissue Northern and human Southern with a probe in human intron 12 that is adjacent to exon 13.
the Northern : Only the expected bands were detected on the Southern and no bands were detected on the Northern, confirming that this alternative transcript is specific to murine Mcoln1.
36
a RIKEN clone : Recent BLASTP analysis of the alternate Mcoln1 transcript yields a match to a putative 145 amino acid anonymous protein (GB No. BAB25862) predicted from a RIKEN clone.
the clone : It is obvious from our results, however, that the identification of this sequence as a full-length protein is incorrect since probes unique to the clone, as well as probes containing the Mcoln1 coding sequence, identify the same transcripts.
37
a different c-terminal cytoplasmic tail : The mouse Mcoln1 gene has two alternatively spliced isoforms, with isoform 2 having a different c-terminal cytoplasmic tail.
The unique 86 amino acid c-terminal tail : The unique 86 amino acid c-terminal tail lacks the lysosomal targeting signal and does not contain any conserved domains when compared against the current profile databases.
38
have : We speculate that this protein may have similar channel function but an alternate subcellular localization, but this must be proven once isoform-specific antibodies are raised.
this : We speculate that this protein may have similar channel function but an alternate subcellular localization, but this must be proven once isoform-specific antibodies are raised.
39
ATP11B, a P-type ATPase, : ATP11B, a P-type ATPase, has a rabbit-specific splice variant that deletes a transmembrane domain and therefore likely alters the putative function of the protein [18].
the protein : ATP11B, a P-type ATPase, has a rabbit-specific splice variant that deletes a transmembrane domain and therefore likely alters the putative function of the protein [18].
40
CA : Sequencing was performed using the AmpliCycle sequencing kit from Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA) on a Genomyx LR programmable DNA sequencer.  RT-PCR Reaction  BALB/c mouse brain total RNA was purchased from Clontech Laboratories (Palo Alto, CA) and made to a 1 μg / ml concentration.
CA : Sequencing was performed using the AmpliCycle sequencing kit from Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA) on a Genomyx LR programmable DNA sequencer.  RT-PCR Reaction  BALB/c mouse brain total RNA was purchased from Clontech Laboratories (Palo Alto, CA) and made to a 1 μg / ml concentration.
41
total RNA : Sequencing was performed using the AmpliCycle sequencing kit from Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA) on a Genomyx LR programmable DNA sequencer.  RT-PCR Reaction  BALB/c mouse brain total RNA was purchased from Clontech Laboratories (Palo Alto, CA) and made to a 1 μg / ml concentration.
This RNA : This RNA was used as a template to create cDNA via RT-PCR using random hexamers and oligo dT primer.
42
digested : Total mouse genomic DNA was digested using EcoRI, BamHI, PstI, and XbaI.
The digests : The digests were electrophoresed on a 1% agarose gel at 60V overnight and were transferred onto a Hybond N+ membrane from Amersham Pharmacia Biotech (Piscataway, NJ).
43
mouse adult multiple-tissue northern blot filters : Northern Blot Analysis  Mouse embryo multiple-tissue northern blot and mouse adult multiple-tissue northern blot filters were purchased from Clontech Laboratories (Palo Alto, CA).
The filters : The filters were hybridized with the 32P-dATP labeled DNA fragment of Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 (see above).
The filters : The filters were then hybridized with β-actin probes.
44
A 32P-dATP labeled PCR fragment of the Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 : A 32P-dATP labeled PCR fragment of the Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 was used as a probe (primers 5'-CCCCACAGAAGAGGAAGAC-3' (forward) and 5'-AGATCTTGACCACCTGCAG-3' (reverse) with an annealing temperature of 59°C).
the 32P-dATP labeled DNA fragment of Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 : The filters were hybridized with the 32P-dATP labeled DNA fragment of Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 (see above).
45
the Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 : A 32P-dATP labeled PCR fragment of the Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 was used as a probe (primers 5'-CCCCACAGAAGAGGAAGAC-3' (forward) and 5'-AGATCTTGACCACCTGCAG-3' (reverse) with an annealing temperature of 59°C).
Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 : The filters were hybridized with the 32P-dATP labeled DNA fragment of Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 (see above).
46
exon 2 : A 32P-dATP labeled PCR fragment of the Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 was used as a probe (primers 5'-CCCCACAGAAGAGGAAGAC-3' (forward) and 5'-AGATCTTGACCACCTGCAG-3' (reverse) with an annealing temperature of 59°C).
exon 2 : The filters were hybridized with the 32P-dATP labeled DNA fragment of Mcoln1 coding region corresponding to exon 2 (see above).
47
 RT-PCR Reaction : Sequencing was performed using the AmpliCycle sequencing kit from Applied Biosystems (Foster City, CA) on a Genomyx LR programmable DNA sequencer.  RT-PCR Reaction  BALB/c mouse brain total RNA was purchased from Clontech Laboratories (Palo Alto, CA) and made to a 1 μg / ml concentration.
This work : This work was supported by grant NS39995.
